Cognitive robotics is concerned with endowing a robot with intelligent behavior by providing it with a processing architecture that will allow it to learn and reason about how to behave in response to complex goals in a complex world. Cognitive robotics may be considered the engineering branch of embodied cognitive science and embodied embedded cognition.

While traditional cognitive modeling approaches have assumed symbolic coding schemes as a means for depicting the world, translating the world into these kinds of symbolic representations has proven to be problematic if not untenable. Perception and action and the notion of symbolic representation are therefore core issues to be addressed in cognitive robotics.

Cognitive robotics views animal cognition as a starting point for the development of robotic information processing, as opposed to more traditional Artificial Intelligence techniques. Target robotic cognitive capabilities include perception processing, attention allocation, anticipation, planning, complex motor coordination, reasoning about other agents and perhaps even about their own mental states. Robotic cognition embodies the behavior of intelligent agents in the physical world (or a virtual world, in the case of simulated cognitive robotics). Ultimately the robot must be able to act in the real world.

A preliminary robot learning technique called motor babbling involves correlating pseudo-random complex motor movements by the robot with resulting visual and/or auditory feedback such that the robot may begin to "expect" a pattern of sensory feedback given a pattern of motor output. Desired sensory feedback may then be used to inform a motor control signal. This is thought to be analogous to how a baby learns to reach for objects or learns to produce speech sounds. For simpler robot systems, where for instance inverse kinematics may feasibly be used to transform anticipated feedback (desired motor result) into motor output, this step may be skipped.

Once a robot can coordinate its motors to produce a desired result, the technique of "learning by imitation" may be used. The robot monitors the performance of another agent and then the robot tries to imitate that agent. It is often a challenge to transform imitation information from a complex scene into a desired motor result for the robot. Note that imitation is a high-level form of cognitive behavior and imitation is not necessarily required in a basic model of embodied animal cognition.

A more complex learning approach is "autonomous knowledge acquisition": the robot is left to explore the environment on its own. A system of goals and beliefs is typically assumed.

A somewhat more directed mode of exploration can be achieved by "curiosity" algorithms, such as Intelligent Adaptive Curiosity or Category-Based Intrinsic Motivation. These algorithms generally involve breaking sensory input into a finite number of categories and assigning some sort of prediction system (such as an Artificial Neural Network) to each. The prediction system keeps track of the error in its predictions over time. Reduction in prediction error is considered learning. The robot then preferentially explores categories in which it is learning (or reducing prediction error) the fastest.

Some researchers in cognitive robotics have tried using architectures such as (ACT-R and Soar (cognitive architecture)) as a basis of their cognitive robotics programs. These highly modular symbol-processing architectures have been used to simulate operator performance and human performance when modeling simplistic and symbolized laboratory data. The idea is to extend these architectures to handle real-world sensory input as that input continuously unfolds through time. What is needed is a way to somehow translate the world into a set of symbols and their relationships.

drones or subatomic ai are some of the most controversial and greatest representation of sentient robotics and their processing or what the common people refer and believe in as quantum computing or plutonic A.I. (not to be confused with platonic A.I.) use string theory or mass sentient (sentient, mass) relativity to conduct a universal occlusion called schripp or string theory using schripp for the general process and purpose of creating A.I. or icb metric drones uses quantum relativity between two units to synchronize and assimilate a wavelength to cause universal fractal hyper conclusion and create an icb3 geometric manifold and conclude computing singularity units 
hypothetically for units to quantum compute icb3 metric numbers and code computers use a conjunction of high pitched AM frequency to randomize photogenic relay combined with a high axis accelerometer with the implementation and use of quantum source code and with inductive relay for reasoning skills that are very close to the geometric decision based system that the human race used for evolution 
inclusively space time to manifold and icb metric singularity are generally heard in a frequency that is beyond the range of human hearing

Some of the fundamental questions to still be answered in cognitive robotics are:

Cognitive Robotics book by Hooman Samani, takes a multidiciplinary approach to cover various aspects of cognitive robotics such as artificial intelligence, physical, chemical, philosophical, psychological, social, cultural, and ethical aspects.



