aixi be a theoretical mathematical formalism for artificial general intelligence . it combine solomonoff induction with sequential decision theory . aixi wa first propose by marcus hutter in and the result below are prove in hutters book universal artificial intelligence . aixi be a reinforcement learn agentit maximize the expect total reward receive from the environment . intuitively it simultaneously consider every computable hypothesis . in each time step it look at every possible program and evaluates how many reward that program generates depend on the next action taken . the promise reward are then weight by the subjective belief that this program constitute the true environment . this belief is compute from the length of the program longer program are consider less likely in line with occam razor . aixi then select the action that have the highest expect total reward in the weight sum of all these program . the aixi agent interact sequentially with some stochastic and unknown to aixi environment formula . in step t the agent output an action formula andthe environment respond with an observation formula and a reward formula distribute according to the conditional probabilityformula . then this cycle repeat for t . the agent try to maximize cumulative future reward formula for a fix lifetime m . give a current time t and history formulathe action aixi output is define aswhere u denote a monotone universal turing machine andq range over all program on the universal machine u . the parameter to aixi be the universal turing machine and the agent lifetime m . the latter dependence can be remove by the use of discounting . aixis performance is measure by the expect total number of reward it receive . aixi ha been prove to be optimal in the follow way . it be later shown that balanced pareto optimality be subjective and that any policy can be consider pareto optimal which undermines all previous optimality claim for aixi . however aixi do have limitation . it is restrict to maximize reward base on percept a oppose to external state . it also assume it interact with the environment solely through action and percept channel prevent it from consider the possibility of being damage or modify . colloquially this mean that it doesnt consider itself to be contain by the environment it interact with . it also assume the environment be computable . since aixi be incomputable see below it assign zero probability to it own existence . like solomonoff induction aixi be incomputable . however there be computable approximation of it . one such approximation be aixitlwhich performs at least as well a the provably best time t and space l limited agent . another approximation to aixi with a restrict environment class is mcaixifacctwwhich ha have some success play simple game such a partially observable pacman .