algorithm selection sometimes also call perinstance algorithm selection or offline algorithm selection be a metaalgorithmic technique to choose an algorithm from a portfolio on an instancebyinstance basis . it is motivate by the observation that on many practical problem algorithm have different performance . that be while one algorithm performs well on some instance it perform poorly on others and vice versa for another algorithm . if we can identify when to use which algorithm we can get the best of both world and improve overall performance . this be what algorithm selection aim to do . the only prerequisite for apply algorithm selection technique be that there exist or that there can be construct a set of complementary algorithm . give a portfolio formula of algorithm formula a set of instance formula and a cost metric formula the algorithm selection problem consists of find a map formula from instance formula to algorithm formula such that the cost formula across all instance be optimized . a wellknown application of algorithm selection be the boolean satisfiability problem . here the portfolio of algorithm be a set of complementary sat solvers the instance be boolean formula the cost metric be for example average runtime or number of unsolved instance . so the goal be to select a wellperforming sat solver for each individual instance . in the same way algorithm selection can be apply to many other formulahard problem such a mix integer programming csp ai plan tsp maxsat qbf and answer set programming . competitionwinning system in sat be satzilla s and cshcin machine learn algorithm selection be well known a metalearning . the portfolio of algorithm consists of machine learn algorithm e . random forest svm dnn the instance be data set and the cost metric be for example the error rate . so the goal be to predict which machine learn algorithm will have a small error on each data set . the algorithm selection problem be mainly solve with machine learn technique . by represent the problem instance by numerical feature formula algorithm selection can be see a a multiclass classification problem by learn a map formula for a given instance formula . instance feature be numerical representation of instance . for example we can count the number of variable clauses average clause length for boolean formula or number of sample feature class balance for ml data set to get an impression about their characteristic . we distinguish between two kind of feature depend on the use performance metric formula feature computation can be associate with cost . for example if we use run time a performance metric we include the time to compute our instance feature into the performance of an algorithm selection system . sat solving be a concrete example where such feature cost cannot be neglect since instance feature for cnf formula can be either very cheap e . to get the number of variable can be do in constant time for cnfs in the dimacs format or very expensive e . graph feature which can cost ten or hundred of second . it be important to take the overhead of feature computation into account in practice in such scenario otherwise a mislead impression of the performance of the algorithm selection approach is create . for example if the decision which algorithm to choose can be make with prefect accuracy but the feature be the running time of the portfolio algorithm there be no benefit to the portfolio approach . this would not be obvious if feature cost were omit . one of the first successful algorithm selection approach predict the performance of each algorithm formula and select the algorithm with the best predict performance formula for a new instance formula . a common assumption be that the give set of instance formula can be cluster into homogeneous subset and for each of these subset there be one wellperforming algorithm for all instance in there . so the training consists of identify the homogeneous cluster via an unsupervised clustering approach and associate an algorithm with each cluster . a new instance is assign to a cluster and the associated algorithm select . a more modern approach be costsensitive hierarchical clustering using supervise learn to identify the homogeneous instance subset . a common approach for multiclass classification be to learn pairwise model between every pair of class here algorithm and choose the class that wa predict most often by the pairwise model . we can weight the instance of the pairwise prediction problem by the performance difference between the two algorithm . this is motivate by the fact that we care most about get prediction with large difference correct but the penalty for an incorrect prediction be small if there be almost no performance difference . therefore each instance formula for train a classification model formula v formula is associate with a cost formula . the algorithm selection problem can be effectively apply under the follow assumptionsalgorithm selection is not limit to single domain but can be apply to any kind of algorithm if the above requirement are satisfy . application domain includefor an extensive list of literature about algorithm selection we refer to a literature overview . online algorithm selection in hyperheuristic refers to switch between different algorithm during the solving process . in contrast offline algorithm selection be an oneshot game where we select an algorithm for a give instance only once . an extension of algorithm selection be the perinstance algorithm scheduling problem in which we do not select only one solver but we select a time budget for each algorithm on a perinstance base . this approach improve the performance of selection system in particular if the instance feature be not very informative and a wrong selection of a single solver be likely . give the increasing importance of parallel computationan extension of algorithm selection for parallel computation be parallel portfolio selectionin which we select a subset of the algorithm to simultaneously run in a parallel portfolio .