in computational learning theory machine learning and theory of computation rademacher complexity name after hans rademacher measure richness of a class of realvalued function with respect to a probability distribution . give a set formula the rademacher complexity of a is define a followswhere formula be independent random variable draw from the rademacher distribution i . formula for formula . give a sample formula and a class formula of realvalued function define on a domain space formula the empirical rademacher complexity of formula give formula is define asthis can also be write use the previous definitionwhere formula denotes function composition i . let formula be a probability distribution over formula . the rademacher complexity of the function class formula with respect to formula for sample size formula iswhere the above expectation is take over an identically independently distribute i . sample formula generate according to formula . formula contain a single vector e . formula . thenthe same be true for every singleton hypothesis class . formula contains two vector e . formula . thenthe rademacher complexity can be use to derive datadependent upperbounds on the learnability of function class . intuitively a functionclass with small rademacher complexity be easy to learn . in machine learn it is desire to have a training set that represent the true distribution of sample . this can be quantify use the notion of representativeness . denote by p the probability distribution from which the sample be drawn . denote by formula the set of hypothesis potential classifier and denote by formula the corresponding set of error function i . for every formula there be a function formula that map each training sample featureslabel to the error of the classifier formula on that sample for example if we do binary classification and the error function be the simple loss then formula be a function that return for each training sample on which formula be correct and for each training sample on which formula be wrong . definethe representativeness of the sample formula with respect to formula and formula is define assmaller representativeness be good since it mean that the empirical error of a classifier on the training set be not much low than it true error . the expect representativeness of a sample can be bound by the expect rademacher complexity of the function classwhen the rademacher complexity be small it be possible to learn the hypothesis class h use empirical risk minimization . for example with binary error function for every formula with probability at least formula for every hypothesis formulasince smaller rademacher complexity be well it be useful to have upper bound on the rademacher complexity of various function set . the follow rule can be use to upperbound the rademacher complexity of a set formula . if all vector in formula are translate by a constant vector formula then rada doe not change . if all vector in formula are multiply by a scalar formula then rada is multiply by formula . radab rada radb . kakadetewari lemma if all vector in formula are operate by a lipschitz function then rada be at most multiplied by the lipschitz constant of the function . in particular if all vector in formula are operate by a contraction map then rada strictly decrease . the rademacher complexity of the convex hull of formula equal rada . massart lemma the rademacher complexity of a finite set grow logarithmically with the set size . formally let formula be a set of formula vector in formula and let formula be the mean of the vector in formula . thenin particular if formula be a set of binary vectors the norm be at most formula solet formula be a set family whose vc dimension be formula . it is know that the growth function of formula be bound asthis mean that for every set formula with at most formula element formula . the setfamily formula can be consider a a set of binary vector over formula . substitute this in massarts lemma giveswith more advance technique dudleys entropy bound and hausslers upper bound one can show for example that there exist a constant formula such that any class of formulaindicator function with vapnikchervonenkis dimension formula ha rademacher complexity upperbounded by formula . the follow bound are relate to linear operation on formula a constant set of formula vector in formula . define formula the set of dotproducts of the vector in formula with vector in the unit ball . then . define formula the set of dotproducts of the vector in formula with vector in the unit ball of the norm . thenthe follow bound relates the rademacher complexity of a set formula to it external covering number the number of ball of a give radius formula whose union contain formula . the bound is attribute to dudley . suppose formula be a set of vector whose length norm be at most formula . then for every integer formulain particular if formula lie in a ddimensional subspace of formula thensubstituting this in the previous bound give the follow bound on the rademacher complexitygaussian complexity be a similar complexity with similar physical meaning and can be obtain from the rademacher complexity use the random variables formula instead of formula where formula be gaussian i . random variable with zeromean and variance i . formula .