in statistical classification include machine learn two main approach are call the generative approach and the discriminative approach . these compute classifier by different approach differing in the degree of statistical modelling . terminology be inconsistent but three major type can be distinguish follow . give an observable variable x and a target variable y a generative model be a statistical model of the joint probability distribution on xy formula a discriminative model be a model of the conditional probability of the target y give an observation x symbolically formula and classifier compute without use a probability model are also refer to loosely a discriminative . the distinction between these last two class is not consistently make refers to these three class a generative learning conditional learning and discriminative learning but only distinguish two class call them generative classifier joint distribution and discriminative classifier conditional distribution or no distribution not distinguish between the latter two class . analogously a classifier base on a generative model be a generative classifier while a classifier base on a discriminative model be a discriminative classifier though this term also refer to classifier that are not base on a model . standard example of each all of which be linear classifier be generative classifier naive bayes classifier and linear discriminant analysis discriminative model logistic regression nonmodel classifier perceptron and support vector machine . in application to classification one wish to go from an observation x to a label y or probability distribution on label . one can compute this directly without use a probability distribution distributionfree classifier one can estimate the probability of a label give an observation formula discriminative model and base classification on that or one can estimate the joint distribution formula generative model from that compute the conditional probability formula and then base classification on that . these are increasingly indirect but increasingly probabilistic allow more domain knowledge and probability theory to be apply . in practice different approach are use depend on the particular problem and hybrid can combine strength of multiple approach . an alternative division define these symmetrically a a generative model be a model of the conditional probability of the observable x give a target y symbolically formula while a discriminative model be a model of the conditional probability of the target y give an observation x symbolically formula . regardless of precise definition the terminology be because a generative model can be use to generate random instance outcomes either of an observation and target formula or of an observation x give a target value y . while a discriminative model or discriminative classifier without a model can be use to discriminate the value of the target variable y give an observation x . the difference between discriminate distinguish and classify be subtle and these are not consistently distinguish so the term discriminative classifier because a pleonasm meaning that it do nothing other than classify equivalently discriminate input . in application to classification the observable x be frequently a continuous variable the target y be generally a discrete variable consisting of a finite set of label and the conditional probability formula can also be interpret a a nondeterministic target function formula considering x a input and y a output . give a finite set of label the two definition of generative model be closely related . a model of the conditional distribution formula be a model of the distribution of each label and a model of the joint distribution be equivalent to a model of the distribution of label value formula together with the distribution of observation give a label formula symbolically formula thus while a model of the joint probability distribution be more information than a model of the distribution of label but without their relative frequency it be a relatively small step hence these are not always distinguish . give a model of the joint distribution formula the distribution of the individual variable can be compute a the marginal distribution formula and formula considering x a continuous hence integrate over it and y as discrete hence sum over it and either conditional distribution can be compute from the definition of conditional probability formula and formula . give a model of one conditional probability and estimate probability distribution for the variable x and y denote formula and formula one can estimate the opposite conditional probability use bayes rulefor example give a generative model for formula one can estimateand give a discriminative model for formula one can estimatenote that bayes rule compute one conditional probability in term of the other and the definition of conditional probability compute conditional probability in term of the joint distribution are frequently conflate as well . a generative algorithm model how the data wa generate in order to categorize a signal . it ask the question base on my generation assumption which category be most likely to generate this signal a discriminative algorithm doe not care about how the data wa generate it simply categorize a give signal . so discriminative algorithm try to learn formula directly from the data and then try to classify data . on the other hand generative algorithm try to learn formula which can be transform into formula later to classify the data . one of the advantage of generative algorithm be that you can use formula to generate new data similar to exist data . on the other hand discriminative algorithms generally give good performance in classification task . despite the fact that discriminative model do not need to model the distribution of the observe variable they cannot generally express complex relationship between the observed and target variable . they dont necessarily perform good than generative model at classification and regression task . the two class are see a complementary or a different view of the same procedure . type of generative model areif the observed data are truly sample from the generative model then fit the parameter of the generative model to maximize the data likelihood be a common method . however since most statistical model be only approximation to the true distribution if the model application be to infer about a subset of variable conditional on known value of others then it can be argue that the approximation make more assumption than be necessary to solve the problem at hand . in such case it can be more accurate to model the conditional density function directly use a discriminative model see below although applicationspecific detail will ultimately dictate which approach be most suitable in any particular case . suppose the input data be formula the set of label for formula be formula and there be the follow data pointsformulafor the above data estimate the joint probability distribution formula from the empirical measure will be the followingwhile formula will be follow give an example in which a table of frequency of english word pair is use to generate a sentence begin with represent and speedily be an good which be not proper english but which will increasingly approximate it a the table is move from word pair to word triplet etc .