the accuracy paradox for predictive analytics state that predictive model with a give level of accuracy may have great predictive power than model with high accuracy . it may be good to avoid the accuracy metric in favor of other metric such a precision and recall . accuracy be often the start point for analyze the quality of a predictive model as well a an obvious criterion for prediction . accuracy measure the ratio of correct prediction to the total number of case evaluated . it may seem obvious that the ratio of correct prediction to case should be a key metric . a predictive model may have high accuracy but be useless . in an example predictive model for an insurance fraud application all case that are predict a highrisk by the model will be investigate . to evaluate the performance of the model the insurance company ha create a sample data set of claim . all case in the validation sample have be carefully check and it is know which case be fraudulent . a table of confusion assist analyze the quality of the model . the definition of accuracy the table of confusion for model m and the calculation of accuracy for model m is show below . formulawhereformula definition of accuracytable table of confusion for fraud model m . formulaformula accuracy for model mwith an accuracy of . model m appear to perform fairly well . the paradox lie in the fact that accuracy can be easily improve to . by always predict no fraud . the table of confusion and the accuracy for this trivial always predict negative model m and the accuracy of this model are show below . table table of confusion for fraud model m . formulaformula accuracy for model mmodel mreduces the rate of inaccurate prediction from to . this be an apparent improvement of . the new model m show few incorrect prediction and markedly improve accuracy a compare to the original model m but be obviously useless . the alternative model m doe not offer any value to the company for preventing fraud . the less accurate model be more useful than the more accurate model . caution is advise when use accuracy in the evaluation of predictive model it be appropriate only if the cost of a false positive false alarm be equal to the cost of a false negative miss prediction . otherwise a more appropriate loss function should be determined .