a constrain conditional model ccm be a machine learn and inference framework that augment the learning of conditional probabilistic or discriminative model with declarative constraint . the constraint can be use a a way to incorporate expressive prior knowledge into the model and bias the assignment make by the learn model to satisfy these constraint . the framework can be use to support decision in an expressive output space while maintain modularity and tractability of training and inference . model of this kind have recently attract much attention within the natural language process nlp community . formulate problem a constrain optimization problem over the output of learn model have several advantage . it allow one to focus on the modeling of problem by provide the opportunity to incorporate domainspecific knowledge a global constraint use a first order language . use this declarative framework free the developer from low level feature engineering while capture the problem domainspecific property and guarantying exact inference . from a machine learn perspective it allow decouple the stage of model generation learn from that of the constrained inference stage thus help to simplify the learn stage while improve the quality of the solution . for example in the case of generate compress sentence rather than simply rely on a language model to retain the most commonly use ngrams in the sentence constraint can be use to ensure that if a modifier be keep in the compressed sentence it subject will also be keep . make decision in many domain such a natural language process and computer vision problem often involves assign value to set of interdependent variable where the expressive dependency structure can influence or even dictate what assignment be possible . these setting be applicable not only to structure learn problem such a semantic role label but also for case that require make use of multiple prelearned component such a summarization textual entailment and question answer . in all these case it be natural to formulate the decision problem a a constrained optimization problem with an objective function that is compose of learn model subject to domain or problemspecific constraint . constrain conditional model form a learning and inference framework that augment the learning of conditional probabilistic or discriminative model with declarative constraint write for example use a firstorder representation a a way to support decision in an expressive output space while maintain modularity and tractability of training and inference . these constraint can express either hard restriction completely prohibit some assignment or soft restriction penalize unlikely assignment . in most application of this framework in nlp follow integer linear programming ilp wa use a the inference framework although other algorithm can be use for that purpose . give a set of feature function formula and a set of constraint formula define over an input structure formula and an output structure formula a constraint conditional model is characterize by two weight vector w and formula and is define a the solution to the follow optimization problemeach constraint formula be a boolean mapping indicate if the joint assignment formula violate a constraint and formula be the penalty incur for violate the constraint . constraint assign an infinite penalty are know a hard constraint and represent unfeasible assignment to the optimization problem . the objective function use by ccms can be decompose and learn in several way range from a complete joint training of the model along with the constraint to completely decouple the learning and the inference stage . in the latter case several local model are learn independently and the dependency between these model is consider only at decision time via a global decision process . the advantage of each approach are discuss in which study the two training paradigm local model li learn inference and global model ibt inference base training and show both theoretically and experimentally that while ibt joint train be best in the limit under some condition basically good component li can generalize well . the ability of ccm to combine local model be especially beneficial in case where joint learn be computationally intractable or when training data be not available for joint learn . this flexibility distinguish ccm from the other learn framework that also combine statistical information with declarative constraint such a markov logic network that emphasize joint train . ccm can help reduce supervision by use domain knowledge express a constraint to drive learn . these setting were study in codl and show that by incorporate domain knowledge the performance of the learned model improve significantly . ccms have also been apply to latent learn framework where the learn problem is define over a latent representation layer . since the notion of a correct representation is inherently illdefined no goldstandard label data regard the representation decision be available to the learner . identify the correct or optimal learning representation is view a a structured prediction process and therefore model a a ccm . this problem wa cover in several paper in both supervise and unsupervised setting . in all case research show that explicitly modeling the interdependency between representation decision via constraint result in an improved performance . the advantage of the ccm declarative formulation and the availability of offtheshelf solver have lead to a large variety of natural language processing task being formulate within the framework include semantic role label syntactic parsing coreference resolution summarization transliteration natural language generation and joint information extraction . most of these work use an integer linear programming ilp solver to solve the decision problem . although theoretically solve an integer linear program be exponential in the size of the decision problem in practice use stateoftheart solver and approximate inference technique large scale problem can be solve efficiently . the key advantage of use an ilp solver for solve the optimization problem define by a constrain conditional model be the declarative formulation use a input for the ilp solver consist of a linear objective function and a set of linear constraint .