user behavior analytics uba a define by gartner be a cybersecurity process about detection of insider threat target attack and financial fraud . uba solution look at pattern of human behavior and then apply algorithm and statistical analysis to detect meaningful anomaly from those patternsanomalies that indicate potential threat . instead of tracking device or security event uba track a system user . big data platform like apache hadoop be increase uba functionality by allow them to analyze petabyte worth of data to detect insider threat and advance persistent threat . the problem uba responds to a describe by nemertes research ceo johna till johnson be that security system provide so much information that it tough to uncover information that truly indicate a potential for real attack . analytics tool help make sense of the vast amount of data that siem idsips system log and other tool gather . uba tool use a specialized type of security analytics that focus on the behavior of system and the people use them . uba technology first evolve in the field of market to help company understand and predict consumerbuying pattern . but a it turn out uba can be extraordinarily useful in the security context too . development in uba technology lead gartner to evolve the category to user and entity behavior analytics ueba . in september gartner publish the market guide for user and entity analytics by vice president and distinguished analyst avivah litan that provide a thorough definition and explanation . ueba wa refer to in earlier gartner report but not in much depth . expand the definition from uba include device application server data or anything with an ip address . it move beyond the fraudoriented uba focus to a broader one encompass malicious and abusive behavior that otherwise went unnoticed by exist security monitoring system such a siem and dlp . the addition of entity reflects that device may play a role in a network attack and may also be valuable in uncover attack activity . when end user have been compromise malware can lay dormant and go undetected for month . rather than try to find where the outsider enter uebas allow for quick detection by use algorithm to detect insider threat . particularly in the computer security market there be many vendor for ueba application . they can be differentiate by whether they are design to monitor onpremises or cloudbased software a a service saas application the method in which they obtain the source data the type of analytics they use i . package analytics userdriven or vendorwritten and the service delivery method i . onpremises or a cloudbased . accord to the market guide release by gartner the ueba market grew substantially in ueba vendor grew their customer base market consolidation begin and gartner client interest in ueba and security analytics increase . the report far project over the next three year leading ueba platform will become prefer system for security operation and investigation at some of the organization they serve . it will beand in some case already ismuch easier to discover some security event and analyze individual offender in ueba than it be in many legacy security monitoring system .