in machine learn and pattern recognition a feature be an individual measurable property or characteristic of a phenomenon being observe . choose informative discriminating and independent feature be a crucial step for effective algorithm in pattern recognition classification and regression . feature be usually numeric but structural feature such a string and graph are use in syntactic pattern recognition . the concept of feature be related to that of explanatory variable use in statistical technique such a linear regression . a set of numeric feature can be conveniently describe by a feature vector . an example of reach a twoway classification from a feature vector related to the perceptron consists ofcalculating the scalar product between the feature vector and a vector of weightscomparing the result with a threshold and decide the class base on the comparison . algorithm for classification from a feature vector include near neighbor classification neural network and statistical technique such a bayesian approach . in character recognition feature may include histogram count the number of black pixel along horizontal and vertical direction number of internal hole stroke detection and many others . in speech recognition feature for recognize phoneme can include noise ratio length of sound relative power filter match and many others . in spam detection algorithm feature may include the presence or absence of certain email header the email structure the language the frequency of specific term the grammatical correctness of the text . in computer vision there be a large number of possible feature such a edge and object . in pattern recognition and machine learn a feature vector be an ndimensional vector of numerical feature that represent some object . many algorithm in machine learn require a numerical representation of object since such representation facilitate process and statistical analysis . when represent image the feature value might correspond to the pixel of an image while when represent text the feature might be the frequency of occurrence of textual term . feature vector be equivalent to the vector of explanatory variable use in statistical procedure such a linear regression . feature vector are often combine with weight use a dot product in order to construct a linear predictor function that is use to determine a score for make a prediction . the vector space associate with these vector is often call the feature space . in order to reduce the dimensionality of the feature space a number of dimensionality reduction technique can be employ . higherlevel feature can be obtain from already available feature and add to the feature vector for example for the study of disease the feature age be useful and is define a age year of death minus year of birth . this process is refer to a feature construction . feature construction be the application of a set of constructive operator to a set of exist feature resulting in construction of new feature . example of such constructive operator include check for the equality condition the arithmetic operators the array operator maxs min average as well a other more sophisticated operator for example countsc that count the number of feature in the feature vector s satisfy some condition c or for example distance to other recognition class generalize by some accepting device . feature construction ha long be consider a powerful tool for increase both accuracy and understanding of structure particularly in highdimensional problem . application include study of disease and emotion recognition from speech . the initial set of raw feature can be redundant and too large to be manage . therefore a preliminary step in many application of machine learn and pattern recognition consists of select a subset of feature or construct a new and reduced set of feature to facilitate learn and to improve generalization and interpretability . extract or selecting feature be a combination of art and science developing system to do so is know a feature engineering . it require the experimentation of multiple possibility and the combination of automate technique with the intuition and knowledge of the domain expert . automate this process be feature learn where a machine not only use feature for learn but learn the feature itself .