instance selection or dataset reduction or dataset condensation be an important data preprocessing step that can be apply in many machine learn or data mine task . approach for instance selection can be apply for reduce the original dataset to a manageable volume leading to a reduction of the computational resource that be necessary for perform the learning process . algorithm of instance selection can also be apply for remove noisy instance before apply learn algorithm . this step can improve the accuracy in classification problem . algorithm for instance selection should identify a subset of the total available data to achieve the original purpose of the data mining or machine learn application a if the whole data had been use . consider this the optimal outcome of is would be the minimum data subset that can accomplish the same task with no performance loss in comparison with the performance achieve when the task is perform use the whole available data . therefore every instance selection strategy should deal with a tradeoff between the reduction rate of the dataset and the classification quality . the literature provide several different algorithm for instance selection . they can be distinguish from each other accord to several different criterion . consider this instance selection algorithm can be group in two main class accord to what instance they select algorithm that preserve the instance at the boundary of class and algorithm that preserve the internal instance of the class . within the category of algorithm that select instance at the boundary it be possible to cite drop icf and lsbo . on the other hand within the category of algorithm that select internal instance it be possible to mention enn and lssm . in general algorithm such a enn and lssm are use for remove harmful noisy instance from the dataset . they do not reduce the data a the algorithm that select border instance but they remove instance at the boundary that have a negative impact on the data mine task . they can be use by other instance selection algorithm a a filtering step . for example the enn algorithm is use by drop a the first step and the lssm algorithm is use by lsbo . there be also another group of algorithm that adopt different selection criterion . for example the algorithm ldis and cdis select the dense instance in a given arbitrary neighborhood . the select instance can include both border and internal instance . the ldis and cdis algorithm be very simple and select subset that be very representative of the original dataset . besides that since they search by the representative instance in each class separately they be faster in term of time complexity and effective running time than other algorithm such a drop and icf .