formal concept analysis fca be a principled way of derive a concept hierarchy or formal ontology from a collection of object and their property . each concept in the hierarchy represent the object sharing some set of property and each subconcept in the hierarchy represent a subset of the object as well a a superset of the property in the concept above it . the term wa introduce by rudolf wille in and build on the mathematical theory of lattice and order set that wa develop by garrett birkhoff and others in the s . formal concept analysis find practical application in field include data mining text mine machine learn knowledge management semantic web software development chemistry and biology . the original motivation of formal concept analysis be the search for realworld meaning of mathematical order theory . one such possibility of very general nature be that data table can be transform into algebraic structure call complete lattice and that these can be utilize for data visualization and interpretation . data table that represent binary relation between object and attributes thus tabulating pair of the form object g ha attribute m are consider a the basic data type and are refer to a formal context . in this theory a formal concept is define to be a pair a b where a be a set of object call the extent and b be a set of attribute the intent such thatin this way formal concept analysis formalize the semantic notion of extension and intension . the formal concept of any formal context canas explain belowbe order in a hierarchy call more formally the context concept lattice . the concept lattice can be graphically visualize a a line diagram which then may be helpful for understand the data . often however these lattice get too large for visualization . then the mathematical theory of formal concept analysis may be helpful e . for decompose the lattice into small piece without information loss or for embed it into another structure which be easy to interpret . the theory in it present form go back to the early s and a research group lead by rudolf wille bernhard ganter and peter burmeister at the technische universitt darmstadt . it basic mathematical definition however were already introduce in the s by garrett birkhoff a part of general lattice theory . other previous approach to the same idea arose from various french research group but the darmstadt group normalise the field and systematically work out both it mathematical theory and it philosophical foundation . the latter refer in particular to charles s . peirce but also to the logic of portroyal . in his article restructuring lattice theory initiating formal concept analysis a a mathematical discipline wille start from a discontent with the current lattice theory and pure mathematics in general the production of theoretical result often achieve by elaborate mental gymnastics be impressive but the connection between neighbor domain even part of a theory were get weaker . this aim trace back to the educationalist hartmut von hentig who in pleaded for restructuring science in view of good teaching and in order to make science mutually available and more generally i . also without specialize knowledge critiqueable . hence by it origin formal concept analysis aim at interdisciplinarity and democratic control of research . it correct the start point of lattice theory during the development of formal logic in the th century . then and later in model theory a concept a unary predicate had been reduce to it extent . now again the philosophy of concept should become less abstract by consider the intent . hence formal concept analysis is orient towards the category extension and intension of linguistics and classical conceptual logic . formal concept analysis aim at the clarity of concept accord to charles s . peirces pragmatic maxim by unfold observable elementary property of the subsumed object . in his late philosophy peirce assume that logical thinking aim at perceive reality by the triade concept judgement and conclusion . mathematics be an abstraction of logic develops pattern of possible reality and therefore may support rational communication . on this background wille definesthe data in the example is take from a semantic field study where different kind of body of water were systematically categorize by their attribute . for the purpose here it ha be simplified . the data table represent a formal context the line diagram next to it show it concept lattice . formal definition follow below . the above line diagram consists of circle connecting line segment and label . circle represent formal concept . the line allow to read off the subconceptsuperconcept hierarchy . each object and attribute name is use a a labelexactly once in the diagram with object below and attribute above concept circle . this is do in a way that an attribute can be reach from an object via an ascending path if and only if the object have the attribute . in the diagram shown e . the object reservoir have the attribute stagnant and constant but not the attribute temporary run natural maritime . accordingly puddle have exactly the characteristic temporary stagnant and natural . the original formal context can be reconstruct from the labelled diagram as well a the formal concept . the extent of a concept consists of those object from which an ascend path lead to the circle represent the concept . the intent consists of those attribute to which there be an ascend path from that concept circle in the diagram . in this diagram the concept immediately to the left of the label reservoir have the intent stagnant and natural and the extent puddle maar lake pond tarn pool lagoon and sea . a formal context be a triple k g m i where g be a set of object m be a set of attribute and i g m be a binary relation call incidence that express which object have which attribute . for subsets a g of object and subset b m of attribute one defines two derivation operator a followsa m m gim for all g a and duallyb g g gim for all m b . apply either derivation operator and then the other constitutes two closure operatorsa a a for a g extent closure andb b b for b m intent closure . the derivation operator define a galois connection between set of object and of attribute . this be why infrench a concept lattice be sometimes call a treillis de galois galois lattice . with these derivation operator wille give an elegant definition of a formal concepta pair ab be a formal concept of a context g m i provide thata g b m a b and b a . equivalently and more intuitively ab be a formal concept precisely whenfor compute purpose a formal context may be naturally represent a a matrix k in which the row correspond to the object the column correspond to the attribute and each entry k equal to if object i have attribute j . in this matrix representation each formal concept corresponds to a maximal submatrix not necessarily contiguous all of whose element equal . it be however misleading to consider a formal context a boolean because the negated incidence object g doe not have attribute m be not concept form in the same way a define above . for this reason the value and or true and false are usually avoid when represent formal context and a symbol like formula is use to express incidence . the concepts a b of a context k can be partially order by the inclusion of extent or equivalently by the dual inclusion of intent . an order on the concept be define a follows for any two concepts a b and a b of k we say that a b a b precisely when a a . equivalently a b a b whenever b b . in this order every set of formal concept have a greatest common subconcept or meet . it extent consists of those object that be common to all extent of the set . dually every set of formal concept ha a least common superconcept the intent of which comprise all attribute which all object of that set of concept have . these meet and join operation satisfy the axiom define a lattice in fact a complete lattice . conversely it can be show that every complete lattice be the concept lattice of some formal context up to isomorphism . realworld data be often give in the form of an objectattribute table where the attribute have value . formal concept analysis handle such data by transform them into the basic type of a onevalued formal context . the method is call conceptual scale . the negation of an attribute m be an attribute m the extent of which be just the complement of the extent of m i . with m gm . it be in general not assume that negate attribute be available for concept formation . but pair of attribute which be negation of each other often naturally occur for example in context derive from conceptual scaling . for possible negation of formal concept see the section concept algebra below . an implication a b relates two set a and b of attribute and express that every object possess each attribute from a also have each attribute from b . when gmi be a formal context and a b be subset of the set m of attribute i . ab m then the implication a b be valid if a b . for each finite formal context the set of all valid implication have a canonical basis an irredundant set of implication from which all valid implication can be derive by the natural inference armstrong rule . this is use in attribute exploration a knowledge acquisition method base on implication . formal concept analysis have elaborate mathematical foundation make the field versatile . a a basic example we mention the arrow relation which be simple and easy to compute but very useful . they are define a follows for g g and m m letg m gim and if mn and m n then ginand duallyg m gim and if gh and g h then him . since only nonincident objectattribute pair can be relate these relation can conveniently be record in the table represent a formal context . many lattice property can be read off from the arrow relation include distributivity and several of it generalization . they also reveal structural information and can be use for determine e . the congruence relation of the lattice . there be a number of simple and fast algorithm for generate formal concept and for construct and navigate concept lattice . for a survey see kuznetsov and obiedkov or the book by ganter and obiedkov where also some pseudocode can be find . since the number of formal concept may be exponential in the size of the formal context the complexity of the algorithm usually is give with respect to the output size . concept lattices with a few million element can be handle without problem . many fca software application be available today . the main purpose of these tool vary from formal context creation to formal concept mining and generate the concept lattice of a give formal context and the correspond implication and association rule . most of these tool be academic opensource application such asthe formal concept analysis can be use a a qualitative method for data analysis . since the early beginning of fba in the early s the fba research group at tu darmstadt ha gain experience from more than project use the fba a of . include the field of medicine and cell biology genetics ecology software engineer ontology information and library science office administration law linguistics political science . many more example be e . describe in formal concept analysis . foundation and application conference paper at regular conference such a international conference on formal concept analysis icfca concept lattice and their application cla or international conference on conceptual structure iccs .