darkforest be a computer go program develop by facebook base on deep learning technique use a convolutional neural network . it updated version darkfores combine the technique of it predecessor with monte carlo tree search . the mcts effectively take tree search method commonly see in computer chess program and randomize them . with the update the system is know a darkfmcts . darkforest be of similar strength to program like crazystone and zen . it ha been test against a professional human player at the uec cup . google alphago program won against a professional player in october use a similar combination of technique . darkforest is name after liu cixins science fiction novel the dark forest . compete with top human player in the ancient game of go ha be a longterm goal of artificial intelligence . go high branching factor make traditional search technique ineffective even on cuttingedge hardware and go evaluation function could change drastically with one stone change . however by use a deep convolutional neural network design for longterm prediction darkforest ha be able to substantially improve the win rate for bot over more traditional monte carlo tree search base approach . against human player darkfores achieve a stable d rank on kg go server which roughly correspond to an advance amateur human player . however after add monte carlo tree search to darkfores to create a much strong player named darkfmcts it can achieve a d rank on the kg go server . darkfmcts be on par with stateoftheart go ais such a zen dolbaram and crazy stone but lag behind alphago . it win rd place in january kg bot tournament against other go ais . after google alphago won against fan hui in facebook make it ai hardware design public alongside release the code behind darkforest a opensource along with heavy recruiting to strengthen it team of ai engineer . darkforest use a neural network to sort through the board position and find the most powerful next move . however neural network alone cannot match the level of good amateur player or the best searchbased go engine and so darkfores combine the neural network approach with a searchbased machine . a database of real go game were use in the development of darkforest with use a a training set and the rest use to test the neural network ability to predict the next move play in the real game . this allow darkforest to accurately evaluate the global state of the board but local tactic be still poor . searchbased engine have poor global evaluation but be good at local tactic . combine these two approach be difficult because searchbased engine work much faster than neural network a problem which wa solve in darkfores by run the process in parallel with frequent communication between the two . go is generally play by analyze the position of the stone on the board . some advanced player have describe it a play in some part subconsciously . unlike chess and checker where ai player can simply look far forward at move than human player but with each round of go have on average possible move that approach be ineffective . instead neural network copy human play by train the ai system on image of successful move the ai can effectively learn how to interpret how the board look a many grandmaster do . in november facebook demonstrate the combination of mcts with neural network which play with a style that felt human . it ha been note that darkforest still have flaw in it play style . sometimes the bot play tenuki move elsewhere pointlessly when local powerful move are require . when the bot is lose it show the typical behavior of mcts it play bad move and loses more . the facebook ai team ha acknowledge these a area of future improvement . the family of darkforest computer go program is base on convolution neural network . the most recent advance in darkfmcts combine convolutional neural network with more traditional monte carlo tree search . darkfmcts be the most advanced version of darkforest which combine facebooks most advance convolutional neural network architecture from darkfores with a monte carlo tree search . darkfmcts rely on a convolution neural network that predict the next k move base on the current state of play . it treat the board a a x image with multiple channel . each channel represent a different aspect of board information base upon the specific style of play . for standard and extended play there be and different channel respectively . in standard play each player liberty are represent a six binary channel or plane . the respective plane be true if the player one two or three or more liberty available . ko i . illegal move is represent a one binary plane . stone placement for each opponent and empty board position are represent a three binary plane and the duration since a stone ha been place is represent a real number on two plane one for each player . lastly the opponent rank is represent by nine binary plane where if all are true the player be a d level if are true a d level and so forth . extend play additionally consider the boarder binary plane that be true at the border position mask represent a distance from the board center i . formula where formula be a real number at a position and each player territory binary base on which player a location be closer to . darkfmct use a layer full convolutional network with a width of node without weight share or pool . each convolutional layer is follow by a rectify linear unit a popular activation function for deep neural network . a key innovation of darkfmct compare to previous approach be that it use only one softmax function to predict the next move which enable the approach to reduce the overall number of parameter . darkfmct wa train against random select game from an empirical dataset representing different game stage . the learn rate wa determine by vanilla stochastic gradient descent . darkfmct synchronously couple a convolutional neural network with a monte carlo tree search . because the convolutional neural network is computationally tax the monte carlo tree search focus computation on the more likely game play trajectory . by run the neural network synchronously with the monte carlo tree search it be possible to guarantee that each node is expand by the move predict by the neural network . darkfores beat darkforest it neural networkonly predecessor around of the time and pachi one of the best searchbased engine around of the time . on the kyu rating system darkforest hold a d level . darkfores achieve a stable d level on kg go server a a rank bot . with the add monte carlo tree search darkfmcts with rollouts beat pachi with k rollouts in all game with k rollouts it achieve a stable d level in kg server on par with stateoftheart go ai e . zen dolbaram crazystone with k rollouts it win the rd place in january kg go tournament .