learn with error lwe be a problem in machine learning that is conjecture to be hard to solve . introduce by oded regev in who win the gdel prize for this work it be a generalization of the parity learn problem . regev show furthermore that the lwe problem be a hard to solve a several worstcase lattice problem . the lwe problem ha recently been use a a hardness assumption to create publickey cryptosystems such a the ring learn with error key exchange by peikert . an algorithm is say to solve the lwe problem if when give access to sample formula where formula a vector of formula integer modulo formula and formula with the assurance for some fix linear function formula that formula with high probability and deviate from it accord to some known noise model the algorithm can recreate formula or some close approximation of it with high probability . denote by formula the additive group on real modulo one . denote by formula the distribution on formula obtain by choose a vector formula uniformly at random choosing formula accord to a probability distribution formula on formula and output formula for some fixed vector formula . here formula be the standard inner product formula the division is do in the field of real or more formally this division by formula be notation for the group homomorphism formula mapping formula to formula and the final addition be in formula . the learn with error problem formula be to find formula given access to polynomially many sample of choice from formula . for every formula denote by formula the onedimensional gaussian with density function formula where formula and let formula be the distribution on formula obtain by consider formula modulo one . the version of lwe consider in most of the result would be formulathe lwe problem described above be the search version of the problem . in the decision version dlwe the goal be to distinguish between noisy inner product and uniformly random sample from formula practically some discretized version of it . regev show that the decision and search version be equivalent when formula be a prime bound by some polynomial in formula . intuitively if we have a procedure for the search problem the decision version can be solve easily just fee the input sample for the decision problem to the solver for the search problem . denote the give sample by formula . if the solver return a candidate formula for all formula calculate formula . if the sample be from an lwe distribution then the result of this calculation will be distribute according formula but if the sample be uniformly random these quantity will be distribute uniformly as well . for the other direction give a solver for the decision problem the search version can be solve a follows recover formula one coordinate at a time . to obtain the first coordinate formula make a guess formula and do the follow . choose a number formula uniformly at random . transform the give sample formula a follows . calculate formula . send the transformed sample to the decision solver . if the guess formula wa correct the transformation take the distribution formula to itself and otherwise since formula be prime it take it to the uniform distribution . so give a polynomialtime solver for the decision problem that err with very small probability since formula is bound by some polynomial in formula it only take polynomial time to guess every possible value for formula and use the solver to see which one be correct . after obtain formula we follow an analogous procedure for each other coordinate formula . namely we transform our formula sample the same way and transform our formula sample by calculate formula where the formula be in the formula coordinate . peikert show that this reduction with a small modification work for any formula that be a product of distinct small polynomial in formula prime . the main idea be if formula for each formula guess and check to see if formula be congruent to formula and then use the chinese remainder theorem to recover formula . regev show the random selfreducibility of the lwe and dlwe problem for arbitrary formula and formula . give sample formula from formula it be easy to see that formula be sample from formula . so suppose there be some set formula such that formula and for distribution formula with formula dlwe be easy . then there would be some distinguisher formula who give sample formula could tell whether they be uniformly random or from formula . if we need to distinguish uniformly random sample from formula where formula be choose uniformly at random from formula we could simply try different value formula sample uniformly at random from formula calculate formula and fee these sample to formula . since formula comprises a large fraction of formula with high probability if we choose a polynomial number of value for formula we will find one such that formula and formula will successfully distinguish the sample . thus no such formula can exist mean lwe and dlwe be up to a polynomial factor a hard in the average case a they be in the bad case . for a ndimensional lattice formula let smooth parameter formula denote the small formula such that formula where formula be the dual of formula and formula be extended to set by sum over function value at each element in the set . let formula denote the discrete gaussian distribution on formula of width formula for a lattice formula and real formula . the probability of each formula be proportional to formula . the discrete gaussian sample problemdgs is define a follow an instance of formula is give by an formuladimensional lattice formula and a number formula . the goal be to output a sample from formula . regev show that there be a reduction from formula to formula for any function formula . regev then show that there exist an efficient quantum algorithm for formula give access to an oracle for formula for integer formula and formula such that formula . this imply the hardness for formula . although the proof of this assertion work for any formula for create a cryptosystem the formula have to be polynomial in formula . peikert prove that there be a probabilistic polynomial time reduction from the formula problem in the bad case to solving formula use formula sample for parameter formula formula formula and formula . the lwe problem serve a a versatile problem use in construction of several cryptosystems . in regev show that the decision version of lwe is hard assume quantum hardness of the lattice problem formula for formula a above and formula with tnformula . in peikert prove a similar result assume only the classical hardness of the related problem formula . the disadvantage of peikerts result be that it base itself on a nonstandard version of an easier when compare to sivp problem gapsvp . regev propose a publickey cryptosystem base on the hardness of the lwe problem . the cryptosystem as well a the proof of security and correctness be completely classical . the system is characterize by formula and a probability distribution formula on formula . the setting of the parameter use in proof of correctness and security isthe cryptosystem is then define bythe proof of correctness follow from choice of parameter and some probability analysis . the proof of security be by reduction to the decision version of lwe an algorithm for distinguish between encryption with above parameter of formula and formula can be use to distinguish between formula and the uniform distribution over formulapeikert propose a system that be secure even against any chosenciphertext attack . the idea of use lwe and ring lwe for key exchange wa propose and file at the university of cincinnati in by jintai ding . the idea come from the associativity of matrix multiplication and the error are use to provide the security . the paper appear in after a provisional patent application wa file in . the security of the protocol is proven base on the hardness of solve the lwe problem . in peikert present a keytransport scheme follow the same basic idea of ding where the new idea of send an additional bit signal for round in ding construction be also used . the new hope implementation select for google postquantum experiment us peikerts scheme with variation in the error distribution .