qloo pronounced clue be a company that use artificial intelligence ai to understand taste and cultural correlation . it provide company with an application programming interface api . it receive fund from leonardo dicaprio elton john barry sternlicht pierre lagrange and others . qloo establish consumer preference correlation via machine learn across data span cultural domain include music film television dining nightlife fashion book and travel . the recommender system use ai to predict correlation for further application . qloo wa found in by chief executive officer alex elia and chief operating officer jay alger . qloo wa test on a private website in april . in qloo raise . million in seed funding from investor include cedric the entertainer danny masterson and venture capital firm kindler capital . qloo have a public beta release in november after it initial funding . in the company raise an additional . million from cross creek picture founding partner tommy thompson and samih toukan and hussam khoury founder of maktoob an internet service company purchase by yahoo for million in . on november a website and an iphone app were announce . the company later release an android app and tablet version in mid . in qloo secured . million in venture capital investment . the . million wa split between a number of investor include barry sternlicht pierre lagrange and leonardo dicaprio . in july qloo raise . million in fund round from axa strategic venture and elton john . follow the investment the founder state in an interview with tech crunch that they would use the investment to expand qloos database . they hop the move would secure large contract with corporate client . at the time clients already include fortune company such a twitter pepsico and bmw . qloo call itself a cultural ai platform to provide realtime correlation data across domain of culture and entertainment including film music television dining nightlife fashion book and travel . each category contains subcategories . qloos knowledge of a user taste in one category can be utilize to offer suggestion in other category . user then rate the suggestion provide it with feedback for future suggestion . qloo have partnership with company such a expedia and itunes .