The cross-entropy (CE) method developed by Reuven Rubinstein is a general Monte Carlo approach to
combinatorial and continuous multi-extremal optimization and importance sampling. 
The method originated from the field of "rare event simulation", where
very small probabilities need to be accurately estimated, for example in network reliability analysis, queueing models, or performance analysis of telecommunication systems.
The CE method can be applied to static and noisy combinatorial optimization problems such as the traveling salesman problem, the quadratic assignment problem, DNA sequence alignment, the max-cut problem and the buffer allocation problem, as well as continuous global optimization problems with many local extrema.

In a nutshell, the CE method consists of two phases 

Consider the general problem of estimating the quantity 

where formula_2 is some "performance function" and formula_3 is a member of some parametric family of distributions. Using importance sampling this quantity can be estimated as 

where formula_5 is a random sample from formula_6. For positive formula_2, the theoretically "optimal" importance sampling density (pdf) is given by 

This, however, depends on the unknown formula_9. The CE method aims to approximate the optimal PDF by adaptively selecting members of the parametric family that are closest (in the Kullback–Leibler sense) to the optimal PDF formula_10.


In several cases, the solution to step 3 can be found "analytically". Situations in which this occurs are

The same CE algorithm can be used for optimization, rather than estimation. 
Suppose the problem is to maximize some function formula_22, for example, 
formula_23. 
To apply CE, one considers first the "associated stochastic problem" of estimating
formula_24
for a given "level" formula_25, and parametric family formula_26, for example the 1-dimensional 
Gaussian distribution,
parameterized by its mean formula_27 and variance formula_28 (so formula_29 here).
Hence, for a given formula_25, the goal is to find formula_31 so that
formula_32
is minimized. This is done by solving the sample version (stochastic counterpart) of the KL divergence minimization problem, as in step 3 above.
It turns out that parameters that minimize the stochastic counterpart for this choice of target distribution and
parametric family are the sample mean and sample variance corresponding to the "elite samples", which are those samples that have objective function value formula_33.
The worst of the elite samples is then used as the level parameter for the next iteration.
This yields the following randomized algorithm that happens to coincide with the so-called Estimation of Multivariate Normal Algorithm (EMNA), an estimation of distribution algorithm.

 1. mu:=-6; sigma2:=100; t:=0; maxits=100; // Initialize parameters




