quantum machine learning be an emerging interdisciplinary research area at the intersection of quantum physic and machine learn . one can distinguish four different way of merge the two parent discipline . quantum machine learn algorithm can use the advantage of quantum computation in order to improve classical method of machine learn for example by develop efficient implementation of expensive classical algorithm on a quantum computer . on the other hand one can apply classical method of machine learn to analyse quantum system . most generally one can consider situation wherein both the learn device and the system under study be fully quantum . a related branch of research explores methodological and structural similarity between certain physical system and learning system in particular neural network which ha reveal for example that certain mathematical and numerical technique from quantum physic carry over to classical deep learn . quantumenhanced machine learning refer to quantum algorithm that solve task in machine learn thereby improve a classical machine learn method . such algorithm typically require one to encode the give classical dataset into a quantum computer so a to make it accessible for quantum information processing . after this quantum information processing routine can be apply and the result of the quantum computation is read out by measure the quantum system . for example the outcome of the measurement of a qubit could reveal the result of a binary classification task . while many proposal of quantum machine learn algorithm be still purely theoretical and require a fullscale universal quantum computer to be test others have been implement on smallscale or special purpose quantum device . one line of approach is base on the idea of amplitude encoding that be to associate the amplitude of a quantum state with the input and output of computation . since a state of formula qubits be describe by formula complex amplitude this information encoding can allow for an exponentially compact representation . intuitively this correspond to associate a discrete probability distribution over binary random variable with a classical vector . the goal of algorithm base on amplitude encoding be to formulate quantum algorithm whose resource grow polynomially in the number of qubits formula which amount to a logarithmic growth in the number of amplitude and thereby the dimension of the input . many quantum machine learn algorithm in this category are base on variation of the quantum algorithm for linear system of equation which under specific condition perform a matrix inversion use an amount of physical resource grow only logarithmically in the dimension of the matrix . one of these condition be that a hamiltonian which entrywise correspond to the matrix can be simulate efficiently which be known to be possible if the matrix be sparse or low rank . for reference any known classical algorithm for matrix inversion require a number of operation that grow at least quadratically in the dimension of the matrix . quantum matrix inversion can be apply to machine learn method in which the training reduces to solve a linear system of equation for example in leastsquares linear regression the leastsquares version of support vector machine and gaussian process . a crucial bottleneck of method that simulate linear algebra computation with the amplitude of quantum state be state preparation which often require one to initialise a quantum system in a state whose amplitude reflect the feature of the entire dataset . although efficient method for state preparation are know for specific case this step easily hide the complexity of the task . another approach to improve classical machine learn with quantum information process us amplitude amplification method base on grovers search algorithm which ha been show to solve unstructured search problem with a quadratic speedup compare to classical algorithm . these quantum routine can be employ for learn algorithm that translate into an unstructured search task a can be do for instance in the case of the kmedians and the knearest neighbor algorithm . another application be a quadratic speedup in the training of perceptron . amplitude amplification is often combine with quantum walk to achieve the same quadratic speedup . quantum walk have been propose to enhance google pagerank algorithm as well a the performance of reinforcement learn agent in the projective simulation framework . reinforcement learn be a third branch of machine learning distinct from supervised and unsupervised learning which also admit quantum enhancement . in quantumenhanced reinforcement learn a quantum agent interacts with a classical environment and occasionally receive reward for it action which allow the agent to adapt it behaviourin other word to learn what to do in order to gain more reward . in some situation either because of the quantum process capability of the agent or due to the possibility to probe the environment in superposition a quantum speedup may be achieve . implementation of these kind of protocol in superconducting circuit and in system of trapped ion have be propose . sample from highdimensional probability distribution be at the core of a wide spectrum of computational technique with important application across science engineering and society . example include deep learn probabilistic programming and other machine learn and artificial intelligence application . a computationally hard problem which be key for some relevant machine learn task be the estimation of average over probabilistic model define in term of a boltzmann distribution . sample from generic probabilistic model be hard algorithm relying heavily on sample are expect to remain intractable no matter how large and powerful classical compute resource become . even though quantum annealers like those produce by dwave system were design for challenge combinatorial optimization problem it ha been recently recognize a a potential candidate to speed up computation that rely on sample by exploit quantum effect . some research group have recently explore the use of quantum annealing hardware for train boltzmann machine and deep neural network . the standard approach to training boltzmann machine rely on the computation of certain average that can be estimate by standard sampling technique such a markov chain monte carlo algorithm . another possibility be to rely on a physical process like quantum annealing that naturally generates sample from a boltzmann distribution . the objective be to find the optimal control parameter that best represent the empirical distribution of a give dataset . the dwave x system host at nasa ames research center ha been recently use for the learning of a special class of restrict boltzmann machine that can serve a a building block for deep learn architecture . complementary work that appear roughly simultaneously show that quantum annealing can be use for supervise learning in classification task . the same device be later used to train a fully connect boltzmann machine to generate reconstruct and classify downscaled lowresolution handwritten digit among other synthetic datasets . in both case the model train by quantum annealing have a similar or good performance in term of quality . the ultimate question that drive this endeavour be whether there be quantum speedup in sample application . experience with the use of quantum annealers for combinatorial optimization suggest the answer be not straightforward . inspire by the success of boltzmann machine base on classical boltzmann distribution a new machine learn approach base on quantum boltzmann distribution of a transversefield ising hamiltonian wa recently propose . due to the noncommutative nature of quantum mechanic the training process of the quantum boltzmann machine can become nontrivial . this problem be to some extent circumvent by introduce bound on the quantum probability allow the author to train the model efficiently by sample . it be possible that a specific type of quantum boltzmann machine ha been train in the dwave x by use a learning rule analogous to that of classical boltzmann machine . quantum annealing be not the only technology for sampling . in a prepare and measure scenario a universal quantum computer prepares a thermal state which is then sample by measurement . this can reduce the time require to train a deep restrict boltzmann machine and provide a richer and more comprehensive framework for deep learn than classical computing . the same quantum method also permit efficient training of full boltzmann machine and multilayer fully connect model and do not have wellknown classical counterpart . rely on an efficient thermal state preparation protocol start from an arbitrary state quantumenhanced markov logic network exploit the symmetry and the locality structure of the probabilistic graphical model generate by a firstorder logic template . this provide an exponential reduction in computational complexity in probabilistic inference and while the protocol rely on a universal quantum computer under mild assumption it can be embed on contemporary quantum annealing hardware . there be quantum analogue or generalisation of classical neural net which are know a quantum neural network . hidden quantum markov model hqmms be a quantumenhanced version of classical hide markov model hmms which are typically use to model sequential data in various field like robotics and natural language processing . unlike the approach take by other quantumenhanced machine learn algorithm hqmms can be view a model inspire by quantum mechanic that can be run on classical computer as well . where classical hmms use probability vectors to represent hidden belief state hqmms use the quantum analogue density matrix . recent work ha show that these model can be successfully learn by maximize the loglikelihood of the given data via classical optimization and there be some empirical evidence that these model can good model sequential data compare to classical hmms in practice although further work is need to determine exactly when and how these benefit are derive . additionally since classical hmms be a particular kind of bayes net an exciting aspect of hqmms be that the technique use show how we can perform quantumanalogous bayesian inference which should allow for the general construction of the quantum version of probabilistic graphical model . quantum learning theory pursue a mathematical analysis of the quantum generalization of classical learning model and of the possible speedup or other improvement that they may provide . the framework be very similar to that of classical computational learning theory but the learner in this case be a quantum information process device while the data may be either classical or quantum . quantum learning theory should be contrast with the quantumenhanced machine learning discuss above where the goal be to consider specific problem and to use quantum protocol to improve the time complexity of classical algorithm for these problem . although quantum learning theory be still under development partial result in this direction have been obtain . the starting point in learn theory be typically a concept class a set of possible concept . usually a concept be a function on some domain such a formula . for example the concept class could be the set of disjunctive normal form dnf formula on n bit or the set of boolean circuit of some constant depth . the goal for the learner be to learnexactly or approximately an unknown target concept from this concept class . the learner may be actively interact with the target concept or passively receive sample from it . in active learn a learner can make membership query to the target concept c ask for it value cx on input x choose by the learner . the learner then have to reconstruct the exact target concept with high probability . in the model of quantum exact learn the learner can make membership query in quantum superposition . if the complexity of the learner is measure by the number of membership query it make then quantum exact learner can be polynomially more efficient than classical learner for some concept class but not more . if complexity is measure by the amount of timethe learner us then there be concept class that can be learn efficiently byquantum learner but not by classical learner under plausible complexitytheoretic assumption . a natural model of passive learn be valiants probably approximately correct pac learn . here the learner receive random example xcx where x is distribute according to some unknown distribution d . the learner goal be to output a hypothesis function h such that hxcx with high probability when x is draw accord to d . the learner have to be able to produce such an approximately correct h for every d and every target concept c in it concept class . we can consider replace the random example by potentially more powerful quantum example formula . in the pac model and the relate agnostic model this doesnt significantly reduce the number of example need for every concept class classical andquantum sample complexity be the same up to constant factor . however for learn under somefixed distribution d quantum example can be very helpful for example for learn dnf underthe uniform distribution . when consider time complexity there exist concept class that can be paclearned efficiently by quantum learner even from classical example but not by classical learner again under plausible complexitytheoretic assumption . this passive learn type be also the most common scheme in supervise learn a learning algorithm typically take the training example fix without the ability to query the label of unlabelled example . output a hypothesis h be a step of induction . classically an inductive model split into a training and an application phase the model parameter are estimate in the training phase and the learn model is apply an arbitrary many time in the application phase . in the asymptotic limit of the number of application this splitting of phase be also present with quantum resource . the term quantum machine learn is also use for approach that apply classical method of machine learn to the study of quantum system . a prime example be the use of classical learning technique to process large amount of experimental data in order to characterize an unknown quantum system for instance in the context of quantum information theory and for the development of quantum technology but there be also more exotic application . the ability to experimentally control and prepare increasingly complex quantum system brings with it a growing need to turn large and noisy data set into meaningful information . this be a problem that ha already be study extensively in the classical setting and consequently many exist machine learning technique can be naturally adapt to more efficiently address experimentally relevant problem . for example bayesian method and concept of algorithmic learning can be fruitfully apply to tackle quantum state classification hamiltonian learn and the characterization of an unknown unitary transformation . other problem that have been address with this approach are give in the follow listhowever the characterization of quantum state and process be not the only application of classical machine learn technique . some additional application includein the most general case of quantum machine learn both the learning device and the system under study as well a their interaction be fully quantum . this section give a few example of result on this topic . one class of problem that can benefit from the fully quantum approach be that of learn unknown quantum state process or measurement in the sense that one can subsequently reproduce them on another quantum system . for example one may wish to learn a measurement that discriminates between two coherent state give not a classical description of the state to be discriminate but instead a set of example quantum system prepare in these state . the naive approach would be to first extract a classical description of the state and then implement an ideal discriminating measurement base on this information . this would only require classical learn . however one can show that a fully quantum approach be strictly superior in this case . this also relate to work on quantum pattern matching . the problem of learn unitary transformation can be approach in a similar way . go beyond the specific problem of learn state and transformation the task of cluster also admit a fully quantum version wherein both the oracle which return the distance between datapoints and the information processing device which run the algorithm be quantum . finally a general framework spanning supervise unsupervised and reinforcement learn in the fully quantum setting wa introduce in where it be also shown that the possibility of probe the environment in superposition permit a quantum speedup in reinforcement learn . the early experiment were conduct use the adiabatic dwave quantum computer for instance to detect car in digital image using regularize boost with a nonconvex objective function in a demonstration in . many experiment follow on the same architecture and lead tech company have show interest in the potential of quantum machine learn for future technological implementation . in google research nasa and the university space research association launch the quantum artificial intelligence lab which explore the use of the adiabatic dwave quantum computer . a more recent example train a probabilistic generative model with arbitrary pairwise connectivity showing that their model be capable of generate handwritten digit as well a reconstruct noisy image of bar and stripe and handwritten digit . use a different annealing technology base on nuclear magnetic resonance nmr a quantum hopfield network wa implement in that map the input data and memorize data to hamiltonians allow the use of adiabatic quantum computation . nmr technology also enable universal quantum computing and it wa use for the first experimental implementation of a quantum support vector machine to distinguish hand write number and on a liquidstate quantum computer in . the training data involve the preprocessing of the image which map them to normalize dimensional vector to represent the image a the state of a qubit . the two entry of the vector be the vertical and horizontal ratio of the pixel intensity of the image . once the vector are define on the feature space the quantum support vector machine wa implement to classify the unknown input vector . the readout avoids costly quantum tomography by read out the final state in term of direction updown of the nmr signal . photonic implementation are attract more attention not the least because they do not require extensive cool . simultaneous speak digit and speaker recognition and chaotic timeseries prediction were demonstrate at data rate beyond gigabyte per second in . use nonlinear photonics to implement an alloptical linear classifier a perceptron model be capable of learn the classification boundary iteratively from train data through a feedback rule . a core building block in many learn algorithm be to calculate the distance between two vector this be first experimentally demonstrated for up to eight dimension use entangled qubits in a photonic quantum computer in . recently base on a neuromimetic approach a novel ingredient ha been add to the field of quantum machine learn in the form of a socalled quantum memristor a quantized model of the standard classical memristor . this device can be construct by mean of a tunable resistor weak measurement on the system and a classical feedforward mechanism . an implementation of a quantum memristor in superconducting circuit ha be propose and an experiment with quantum dot performed . a quantum memristor would implement nonlinear interaction in the quantum dynamic which would aid the search for a fully functional quantum neural network .