action model learning sometimes abbreviated action learn be an area of machine learn concern with creation and modification of software agent knowledge about effect and precondition of the action that can be execute within it environment . this knowledge be usually represented in logicbased action description language and use a the input for automated planner . learn action model be important when goal change . when an agent act for a while it can use it accumulated knowledge about action in the domain to make good decision . thus learn action model differs from reinforcement learn . it enable reason about action instead of expensive trial in the world . action model learning be a form of inductive reason where new knowledge is generate base on agent observation . it differ from standard supervise learn in that correct inputoutput pair are never present nor imprecise action model explicitly correct . usual motivation for action model learning be the fact that manual specification of action model for planner be often a difficult time consuming and errorprone task especially in complex environment . give a training set formula consisting of example formula where formula be observation of a world state from two consecutive time step formula and formula be an action instance observe in time step formula the goal of action model learn in general be to construct an action model formula where formula be a description of domain dynamic in action description formalism like strip adl or pddl and formula be a probability function define over the element of formula . however many state of the art action learn method assume determinism and do not induce formula . in addition to determinism individual method differ in how they deal with other attribute of domain e . partial observability or sensoric noise . recent action learn method take various approach and employ a wide variety of tool from different area of artificial intelligence and computational logic . a an example of a method base on propositional logic we can mention slaf simultaneous learn and filter algorithm which use agent observation to construct a long propositional formula over time and subsequently interprets it use a satisfiability sat solver . another technique in which learning is convert into a satisfiability problem weight maxsat in this case and sat solver are use be implement in arm actionrelation modeling system . two mutually similar fully declarative approach to action learn were base on logic programming paradigm answer set programming asp and it extension reactive asp . in another example bottomup inductive logic programming approach wa employ . several different solution are not directly logicbased . for example the action model learn use a perceptron algorithm or the multi level greedy search over the space of . possible action model . in the old paper from the action model learning wa study a an extension of reinforcement learn . most action learn research paper are publish in journal and conference focus on artificial intelligence in general e . journal of artificial intelligence research jair artificial intelligence apply artificial intelligence aai or aaai conference . despite mutual relevance of the topic action model learning is usually not address on planning conference like icaps .