active learning be a special case of semisupervised machine learn in which a learning algorithm be able to interactively query the user or some other information source to obtain the desired output at new data point . in statistic literature it be sometimes also call optimal experimental design . there be situation in which unlabeled data be abundant but manually labeling be expensive . in such a scenario learning algorithm can actively query the userteacher for label . this type of iterative supervised learning is call active learn . since the learner choose the example the number of example to learn a concept can often be much low than the number require in normal supervised learn . with this approach there be a risk that the algorithm be overwhelm by uninformative example . recent development are dedicate to multilabel active learn hybrid active learn and active learn in a singlepass online context combine concept from the field of machine learn e . conflict and ignorance with adaptive incremental learning policy in the field of online machine learn . let be the total set of all data under consideration . for example in a protein engineer problem would include all protein that are know to have a certain interesting activity and all additional protein that one might want to test for that activity . during each iteration is break up into three subset . most of the current research in active learn involves the best method to choose the data point for . algorithm for determine which data point should be label can be organize into a number of different category . a wide variety of algorithm have been study that fall into these category . some active learn algorithm are build upon support vector machine svms and exploit the structure of the svm to determine which data point to label . such method usually calculate the margin of each unlabeled datum in and treat a an dimensional distance from that datum to the separating hyperplane . minimum marginal hyperplane method assume that the data with the smallest be those that the svm be most uncertain about and therefore should be place in to be labeled . other similar method such a maximum marginal hyperplane choose data with the large . tradeoff method choose a mix of the smallest and largest s .