binary or binomial classification be the task of classify the element of a give set into two group predict which group each one belongs to on the basis of a classification rule . context require a decision a to whether or not an item have some qualitative property some specify characteristic or some typical binary classification include . binary classification be dichotomization apply to practical purpose and in many practical binary classification problem the two group be not symmetric rather than overall accuracy the relative proportion of different type of error be of interest . for example in medical test a false positive detect a disease when it be not present is consider differently from a false negative not detect a disease when it be present . statistical classification be a problem study in machine learn . it be a type of supervise learn a method of machine learn where the category are predefined and is use to categorize new probabilistic observation into said category . when there be only two category the problem be known a statistical binary classification . some of the method commonly use for binary classification are . each classifier be best in only a select domain base upon the number of observation the dimensionality of the feature vector the noise in the data and many other factor . for example random forest perform good than svm classifier for d point cloud . there be many metric that can be use to measure the performance of a classifier or predictor different field have different preference for specific metric due to different goal . for example in medicine sensitivity and specificity are often use while in information retrieval precision and recall are prefer . an important distinction be between metric that be independent on the prevalence how often each category occurs in the population and metric that depend on the prevalence both type be useful but they have very different property . give a classification of a specific data set there be four basic combination of actual data category and assign category true positive tp correct positive assignment true negative tn correct negative assignment false positive fp incorrect positive assignment and false negative fn incorrect negative assignment . these can be arrange into a contingency table with column correspond to actual value condition positive cp or condition negative cn and row correspond to classification value test outcome positive or test outcome negative . there be eight basic ratio that one can compute from this table which come in four complementary pair each pair sum to . these are obtain by divide each of the four number by the sum of it row or column yielding eight number which can be refer to generically in the form true positive row ratio or false negative column ratio though there be conventional term . there be thus two pair of column ratio and two pair of row ratio and one can summarize these with four number by choose one ratio from each pair the other four number be the complement . the column ratio be true positive rate tpr aka sensitivity or recall with complement the false negative rate fnr and true negative rate tnr aka specificity spc with complement false positive rate fpr . these be the proportion of the population with the condition resp . without the condition for which the test be correct or complementarily for which the test be incorrect these be independent of prevalence . the row ratio be positive predictive value ppv aka precision with complement the false discovery rate fdr and negative predictive value npv with complement the false omission rate for . these be the proportion of the population with a give test result for which the test be correct or complementarily for which the test be incorrect these depend on prevalence . in diagnostic test the main ratio used be the true column ratio true positive rate and true negative rate where they be know a sensitivity and specificity . in informational retrieval the main ratio be the true positive ratio row and column positive predictive value and true positive rate where they be know a precision and recall . one can take ratio of a complementary pair of ratio yield four likelihood ratio two column ratio of ratio two row ratio of ratio . this is primarily do for the column condition ratios yielding likelihood ratio in diagnostic test . take the ratio of one of these group of ratio yield a final ratio the diagnostic odds ratio dor . this can also be define directly a tptnfpfn tpfnfptn this have a useful interpretation a an odds ratio and be prevalenceindependent . there be a number of other metric most simply the accuracy or fraction correct fc which measure the fraction of all instance that are correctly categorize the complement be the fraction incorrect fic . the fscore combine precision and recall into one number via a choice of weigh most simply equal weighing a the balanced fscore f score . some metric come from regression coefficients the markedness and the informedness and their geometric mean the matthew correlation coefficient . other metric include youdens j statistic the uncertainty coefficient the phi coefficient and cohens kappa . test whose result be of continuous value such a most blood value can artificially be make binary by define a cutoff value with test result being designate a positive or negative depending on whether the resultant value be high or low than the cutoff . however such conversion cause a loss of information a the resultant binary classification doe not tell how much above or below the cutoff a value be . a a result when convert a continuous value that be close to the cutoff to a binary one the resultant positive or negative predictive value be generally high than the predictive value given directly from the continuous value . in such case the designation of the test of be either positive or negative give the appearance of an inappropriately high certainty while the value be in fact in an interval of uncertainty . for example with the urine concentration of hcg a a continuous value a urine pregnancy test that measure miuml of hcg may show a positive with miuml a cutoff but be in fact in an interval of uncertainty which may be apparent only by know the original continuous value . on the other hand a test result very far from the cutoff generally have a resultant positive or negative predictive value that be low than the predictive value give from the continuous value . for example a urine hcg value of miuml confers a very high probability of pregnancy but conversion to binary value result in that it show just as positive a the one of miuml .