category utility be a measure of category goodness define in and . it attempt to maximize both the probability that two object in the same category have attribute value in common and the probability that object from different category have different attribute value . it wa intend to supersede more limited measure of category goodness such a cue validity and collocation index . it provide a normative informationtheoretic measure of the predictive advantage gain by the observer who possess knowledge of the given category structure i . the class label of instance over the observer who doe not possess knowledge of the category structure . in this sense the motivation for the category utility measure be similar to the information gain metric use in decision tree learn . in certain presentation it be also formally equivalent to the mutual information a discuss below . a review of category utility in it probabilistic incarnation with application to machine learn be provided in . the probabilitytheoretic definition of category utility give in and be a follow . where formula be a sizeformula set of formulaary feature and formula be a set of formula category . the term formula designate the marginal probability that feature formula take on value formula and the term formula designate the categoryconditional probability that feature formula take on value formula give that the object in question belongs to category formula . the motivation and development of this expression for category utility and the role of the multiplicand formula a a crude overfitting control is give in the above source . loosely the term formula be the expect number of attribute value that can be correctly guess by an observer use a probabilitymatching strategy together with knowledge of the category label while formula be the expect number of attribute value that can be correctly guess by an observer the same strategy but without any knowledge of the category label . their difference therefore reflects the relative advantage accruing to the observer by having knowledge of the category structure . the informationtheoretic definition of category utility for a set of entity with sizeformula binary feature set formula and a binary category formula be give in a follows . where formula be the prior probability of an entity belong to the positive category formula in the absence of any feature information formula be the conditional probability of an entity have feature formula give that the entity belongs to category formula formula be likewise the conditional probability of an entity have feature formula give that the entity belongs to category formula and formula be the prior probability of an entity possessing feature formula in the absence of any category information . the intuition behind the above expression be a follow the term formula represent the cost in bit of optimally encoding or transmitting feature information when it know that the object to be describe belong to category formula . similarly the term formula represent the cost in bit of optimally encoding or transmitting feature information when it know that the object to be describe belong to category formula . the sum of these two term in the bracket be therefore the weight average of these two cost . the final term formula represent the cost in bit of optimally encoding or transmitting feature information when no category information be available . the value of the category utility will in the above formulation be negative . it is mention in and that the category utility be equivalent to the mutual information . here we provide a simple demonstration of the nature of this equivalence . let u assume a set of entity each have the same formula feature i . feature set formula with each feature variable having cardinality formula . that be each feature have the capacity to adopt any of formula distinct value which need not be order all variable can be nominal for the special case formula these feature would be consider binary but more generally for any formula the feature be simply mary . for our purpose without loss of generality we can replace feature set formula with a single aggregate variable formula that have cardinality formula and adopt a unique value formula correspond to each feature combination in the cartesian product formula . ordinality doe not matter because the mutual information be not sensitive to ordinality . in what follow a term such a formula or simply formula refer to the probability with which formula adopt the particular value formula . use the aggregate feature variable formula replaces multiple summation and simplify the presentation to follow . we assume also a single category variable formula which have cardinality formula . this be equivalent to a classification system in which there be formula nonintersecting category . in the special case of formula we have the twocategory case discuss above . from the definition of mutual information for discrete variable the mutual information formula between the aggregate feature variable formula and the category variable formula be give by . where formula be the prior probability of feature variable formula adopt value formula formula be the marginal probability of category variable formula adopt value formula and formula be the joint probability of variable formula and formula simultaneously adopt those respective value . in term of the conditional probability this can be rewrite or define as . if we will rewrite the original definition of the category utility from above with formula we have . this equation clearly have the same form a the blue equation express the mutual information between the feature set and the category variable the difference be that the sum formula in the category utility equation run over independent binary variable formula whereas the sum formula in the mutual information run over value of the single formulaary variable formula . the two measure be actually equivalent then only when the feature formula be independent and assume that term in the sum correspond to formula are also add . like the mutual information the category utility be not sensitive to any ordering in the feature or category variable value . that be as far a the category utility be concerned the category set codice be not qualitatively different from the category set codice since the formulation of the category utility doe not account for any ordering of the class variable . similarly a feature variable adopting value codice be not qualitatively different from a feature variable adopting value codice . as far a the category utility or mutual information are concern all category and feature variable be nominal variable . for this reason category utility doe not reflect any gestalt aspect of category goodness that might be base on such ordering effect . one possible adjustment for this insensitivity to ordinality is give by the weighting scheme describe in the article for mutual information . this section provide some background on the origin of and need for formal measure of category goodness such a the category utility and some of the history that lead to the development of this particular metric . at least since the time of aristotle there ha be a tremendous fascination in philosophy with the nature of concept and universal . what kind of entity be a concept such a horse such abstraction do not designate any particular individual in the world and yet we can scarcely imagine be able to comprehend the world without their use . do the concept horse therefore have an independent existence outside of the mind if it do then what be the locus of this independent existence the question of locus be an important issue on which the classical school of plato and aristotle famously differ . however they remain in agreement that universal did indeed have a mindindependent existence . there be therefore always a fact to the matter about which concept and universal exist in the world . in the late middle age perhaps begin with occam although porphyry also make a much early remark indicate a certain discomfort with the status quo however the certainty that exist on this issue begin to erode and it become acceptable among the socalled nominalist and empiricist to consider concept and universal a strictly mental entity or convention of language . on this view of conceptsthat they be purely representational constructsa new question then come to the fore why do we possess one set of concept rather than another what make one set of concept good and another set of concept bad this be a question that modern philosopher and subsequently machine learning theorist and cognitive scientist have struggle with for many decade . one approach to answer such question be to investigate the role or purpose of concept in cognition . thus we ask what be concepts good for in the first place the answer provide by and many others be that classification conception be a precursor to induction by impose a particular categorization on the universe an organism gain the ability to deal with physically nonidentical object or situation in an identical fashion thereby gaining substantial predictive leverage . a j . mill put it . from this base mill reach the follow conclusion which foreshadows much subsequent think about category goodness include the notion of category utility . one may compare this to the category utility hypothesis propose by a category be useful to the extent that it can be expect to improve the ability of a person to accurately predict the feature of instance of that category . mill here seem to be suggest that the best category structure be one in which object feature property be maximally informative about the object class and simultaneously the object class be maximally informative about the object feature . in other word a useful classification scheme be one in which we can use category knowledge to accurately infer object property and we can use property knowledge to accurately infer object class . one may also compare this idea to aristotles criterion of counterpredication for definitional predicate as well a to the notion of concept describe in formal concept analysis . a variety of different measure have been suggest with an aim of formally capture this notion of category goodness the best known of which be probably the cue validity . cue validity of a feature formula with respect to category formula is define a the conditional probability of the category give the feature formula or a the deviation of the conditional probability from the category base rate formula . clearly these measure quantify only inference from feature to category i . cue validity but not from category to feature i . the category validity formula . also while the cue validity be originally intend to account for the demonstrable appearance of basic category in human cognitioncategories of a particular level of generality that are evidently prefer by human learnersa number of major flaw in the cue validity quickly emerge in this regard and others . one attempt to address both problem by simultaneously maximizing both feature validity and category validity wa make by in define the collocation index a the product formula but this construction be fairly ad hoc see . the category utility wa introduce a a more sophisticated refinement of the cue validity which attempt to more rigorously quantify the full inferential power of a class structure . a shown above on a certain view the category utility be equivalent to the mutual information between the feature variable and the category variable . it ha been suggest that category have the great overall category utility be those that be not only those best in a normative sense but also those human learner prefer to use e . basic category . other related measure of category goodness be cohesion and salience .