in predictive analytics and machine learn the concept drift mean that the statistical property of the target variable which the model is try to predict change over time in unforeseen way . this cause problem because the prediction become less accurate a time pass . the term concept refer to the quantity to be predict . more generally it can also refer to other phenomenon of interest besides the target concept such a an input but in the context of concept drift the term commonly refer to the target variable . in a fraud detection application the target concept may be a binary attribute fraudulent with value yes or no that indicate whether a given transaction be fraudulent . or in a weather prediction application there may be several target concepts such a temperature pressure and humidity . the behavior of the customer in an online shop may change over time . for example if weekly merchandise sale be to be predict and a predictive model ha be develop that work satisfactorily . the model may use input such a the amount of money spent on advertise promotion be run and other metric that may affect sale . the model be likely to become less and less accurate over time this be concept drift . in the merchandise sales application one reason for concept drift may be seasonality which mean that shop behavior change seasonally . perhaps there will be high sale in the winter holiday season than during the summer for example . to prevent deterioration in prediction accuracy because of concept drift both active and passive solution can be adopt . active solution rely on trigger mechanism e . changedetection test basseville and nikiforov alippi and roveri to explicitly detect concept drift a a change in the statistic of the datagenerating process . in stationary condition any fresh information made available can be integrate to improve the model . differently when concept drift is detect the current model be no more uptodate and must be substitute with a new one to maintain the prediction accuracy gama et al . alippi et al . on the contrary in passive solution the model is continuously update e . by retrain the model on the most recently observe sample widmer and kubat or enforce an ensemble of classifier elwell and polikar . contextual information when available can be use to better explain the cause of the concept drift for instance in the sale prediction application concept drift might be compensate by add information about the season to the model . by provide information about the time of the year the rate of deterioration of your model be likely to decrease concept drift be unlikely to be eliminate altogether . this be because actual shopping behavior doe not follow any static finite model . new factor may arise at any time that influence shopping behavior the influence of the known factor or their interaction may change . concept drift cannot be avoid for complex phenomenon that are not govern by fixed law of nature . all process that arise from human activity such a socioeconomic process and biological process be likely to experience concept drift . therefore periodic retraining also know a refreshing of any model be necessary . announcement discussions job posting related to the topic of concept drift . in data mine machine learn . post are moderate . to subscribe go to the group home page httpsgroups . google . comgroupconceptdrift . many paper have be publish describing algorithm for concept drift detection . only review survey and overview be here .