concept learn also known a category learn concept attainment and concept formation is define by bruner goodnow austin a the search for and listing of attribute that can be use to distinguish exemplar from non exemplar of various category . more simply put concept be the mental category that help u classify object event or idea build on the understanding that each object event or idea have a set of common relevant feature . thus concept learning be a strategy which require a learner to compare and contrast group or category that contain conceptrelevant feature with group or category that do not contain conceptrelevant feature . concept learn also refer to a learning task in which a human or machine learner is train to classify objects by being show a set of example object along with their class label . the learner simplifies what ha been observe by condense it in the form of an example . this simplified version of what ha been learn is then apply to future example . concept learn may be simple or complex because learn take place over many area . when a concept be difficult it be less likely that the learner will be able to simplify and therefore will be less likely to learn . colloquially the task is know a learn from example . most theory of concept learn are base on the storage of exemplar and avoid summarization or overt abstraction of any kind . concept learn must be distinguish from learn by recite something from memory recall or discriminate between two thing that differ discrimination . however these issue are closely relate since memory recall of fact could be consider a trivial conceptual process where prior exemplar represent the concept be invariant . similarly while discrimination be not the same a initial concept learn discrimination process are involve in refine concept by mean of the repeat presentation of exemplar . concrete or perceptual concept v abstract concept . define or relational and associated concept . complex concept . construct such a a schema and a script be example of complex concept . a schema be an organization of small concept or feature and is revise by situational information to assist in comprehension . a script on the other hand be a list of action that a person follow in order to complete a desired goal . an example of a script would be the process of buy a cd . there be several action that must occur before the actual act of purchase the cd and a script provide a sequence of the necessary action and proper order of these action in order to be successful in purchase the cd . discovery every baby discovers concepts for itself such a discover that each of it finger can be individually control or that care giver be individual . although this be perception drive formation of the concept be more than memorize perception . example supervise or unsupervised generalizing from example may lead to learn a new concept but concept formation be more than generalize from example . word hear or read new word lead to learn new concept but form a new concept be more than learn a dictionary definition . a person may have previously form a new concept before encounter the word or phrase for it . exemplar comparison and contrast an efficient way to learn new category and to induce new categorization rule be by compare a few example object while being inform about their categorical relation . compare two exemplar while being inform that the two be from the same category allows identifying the attribute share by the category member a it exemplify variability within this category . on the other hand contrast two exemplar while being inform that the two be from different category may allow identifying attribute with diagnostic value . within category comparison and between category contrast are not similarly useful for category learn hammer et al . and the capacity to use these two form of comparisonbased learning change at childhood hammer et al . invention when prehistoric people who lack tool use their fingernail to scrape food from killed animal or smash melon they notice that a broken stone sometimes have a sharp edge like a fingernail and be therefore suitable for scraping food . invent a stone tool to avoid broken fingernail be a new concept . in general the theoretical issue underlie concept learn be those underlying induction . these issue are address in many diverse publication include literature on subject like version space statistical learning theory pac learn information theory and algorithmic information theory . some of the broad theoretical idea are also discuss by watanabe solomonoff ab and rendell see the reference list below . it be difficult to make any general statement about human or animal concept learn without already assume a particular psychological theory of concept learn . although the classical view of concept and concept learn in philosophy speak of a process of abstraction data compression simplification and summarization currently popular psychological theory of concept learn diverge on all these basic point . the history of psychology ha see the rise and fall of many theory about concept learn . classical conditioning a define by pavlov create the earliest experimental technique . reinforcement learn a describe by watson and elaborate by clark hull create a lasting paradigm in behavioral psychology . cognitive psychology emphasize a computer and information flow metaphor for concept formation . neural network model of concept formation and the structure of knowledge have open powerful hierarchical model of knowledge organization such a george miller wordnet . neural network are base on computational model of learn using factor analysis or convolution . neural network also be open to neuroscience and psychophysiological model of learn follow karl lashley and donald hebb . rulebased theory of concept learning begin with cognitive psychology and early computer model of learn that might be implement in a high level computer language with computational statement such a ifthen production rule . they take classification data and a rulebased theory a input which be the result of a rulebased learner with the hope of produce a more accurate model of the data hekenaho . the majority of rulebased model that have been develop be heuristic meaning that rational analysis have not been provide and the model are not relate to statistical approach to induction . a rational analysis for rulebased model could presume that concept are represent a rule and would then ask to what degree of belief a rational agent should be in agreement with each rule with some observe example provide goodman griffith feldman and tenenbaum . rulebased theory of concept learn are focus more so on perceptual learning and le on definition learn . rule can be use in learn when the stimulus be confusable a opposed to simple . when rule are use in learn decision are make base on property alone and rely on simple criterion that do not require a lot of memory rouder and ratcliff . example of rulebased theory . a radiologist using rulebased categorization would observe . whether specific property of an xray image meet certain . criterion for example be there an extreme difference in brightness . in a suspicious region relative to other region a decision be . then base on this property alone . see rouder and ratcliff . the prototype view of concept learn hold that people abstract out the central tendency or prototype of the example experienced and use this a a basis for their categorization decision . the prototype view of concept learn hold that people categorize base on one or more central example of a given category follow by a penumbra of decreasingly typical example . this implies that people do not categorize base on a list of thing that all correspond to a definition but rather on a hierarchical inventory base on semantic similarity to the central example . to illustrate imagine the follow mental representation of the category sport . the first illustration demonstrate a mental representation if we be to categorize by definition . definition of sport an athletic activity requiring skill or physical prowess and often of a competitive nature . the second illustration demonstrates a mental representation that prototype theory would predict . baseballbr . footballbr . basketballbr . soccerbr . hockeybr . tennisbr . golfbr . br . bikeracingbr . weightliftingbr . skateboardingbr . snowboardingbr . boxingbr . wrestlingbr . br . fishingbr . huntingbr . hikingbr . skydivingbr . bungeejumpingbr . br . cookingbr . walkingbr . br . gatoradebr . waterbr . proteinbr . diet . it be evident that prototype theory hypothesize a more continuous le discrete way of categorization in which the list of thing that match the category definition be not limited . exemplar theory be the storage of specific instance exemplar with new object evaluate only with respect to how closely they resemble specific known member and nonmember of the category . this theory hypothesize that learner store examples verbatim . this theory view concept learn a highly simplistic . only individual property are represent . these individual property be not abstract and they do not create rule . an example of what exemplar theory might look like be water be wet . it is simply know that some or one or all store example of water have the property wet . exemplar base theory have become more empirically popular over the year with some evidence suggest that human learner use exemplar base strategy only in early learn forming prototype and generalization later in life . an important result of exemplar model in psychology literature ha be a deemphasis of complexity in concept learn . one of the best known exemplar theory of concept learning be the generalize context model gcm . a problem with exemplar theory be that exemplar model critically depend on two measure similarity between exemplar and have a rule to determine group membership . sometimes it be difficult to attain or distinguish these measure . more recently cognitive psychologist have begin to explore the idea that the prototype and exemplar model form two extreme . it ha be suggest that people be able to form a multiple prototype representation besides the two extreme representation . for example consider the category spoon . there be two distinct subgroup or conceptual cluster spoon tend to be either large and wooden or small and make of metal . the prototypical spoon would then be a mediumsize object made of a mixture of metal and wood which be clearly an unrealistic proposal . a more natural representation of the category spoon would instead consist of multiple at least two prototype one for each cluster . a number of different proposal have been make in this regard anderson griffiths canini sanborn navarro love medin gureckis vanpaemel storm . these model can be regard a provide a compromise between exemplar and prototype model . the basic idea of explanationbased learning suggest that a new concept is acquire by experience example of it and form a basic outline . put simply by observe or receive the quality of a thing the mind form a concept which posse and is identify by those quality . the original theory propose by mitchell keller and kedarcabelli in and call explanationbased generalization be that learn occurs through progressive generalizing . this theory be first developed to program machine to learn . when apply to human cognition it translates a follow the mind actively separate information that apply to more than one thing and enter it into a broader description of a category of thing . this is do by identify sufficient condition for something to fit in a category similar to schematizing . the revise model revolve around the integration of four mental process generalization chunking operationalization and analogy . this particular theory of concept learn be relatively new and more research is being conduct to test it . bayes theorem be important because it provide a powerful tool for understanding manipulating and control data that take a large view that is not limit to data analysis alone . the approach be subjective and this require the assessment of prior probability make it also very complex . however if bayesians show that the accumulated evidence and the application of bayes law be sufficient the work will overcome the subjectivity of the input involved . bayesian inference can be use for any honestly collected data and have a major advantage because of it scientific focus . one model that incorporate the bayesian theory of concept learn be the actr model develop by john r . anderson . the actr model be a programming language that define the basic cognitive and perceptual operation that enable the human mind by produce a stepbystep simulation of human behavior . this theory exploit the idea that each task humans perform consists of a series of discrete operation . the model ha been apply to learn and memory high level cognition natural language perception and attention humancomputer interaction education and computer generate force . in addition to john r . anderson joshua tenenbaum ha be a contributor to the field of concept learn he study the computational basis of human learning and inference use behavioral testing of adult child and machine from bayesian statistic and probability theory but also from geometry graph theory and linear algebra . tenenbaum is work to achieve a good understanding of human learn in computational term and try to build computational system that come close to the capacity of human learner . merrills component display theory cdt be a cognitive matrix that focus on the interaction between two dimension the level of performance expect from the learner and the type of content of the material to be learn . merrill classify a learner level of performance a find use remember and material content a fact concepts procedure and principle . the theory also call upon four primary presentation form and several other secondary presentation form . the primary presentation form include rule example recall and practice . secondary presentation form include prerequisite objective help mnemonic and feedback . a complete lesson include a combination of primary and secondary presentation form but the most effective combination varies from learner to learner and also from concept to concept . another significant aspect of the cdt model be that it allow for the learner to control the instructional strategy use and adapt them to meet his or her own learn style and preference . a major goal of this model be to reduce three common error in concept formation overgeneralization undergeneralization and misconception .