in the field of machine learn and specifically the problem of statistical classification a confusion matrix also know a an error matrix be a specific table layout that allow visualization of the performance of an algorithm typically a supervise learn one in unsupervised learn it is usually call a matching matrix . each row of the matrix represent the instance in a predict class while each column represent the instance in an actual class or vice versa . the name stem from the fact that it make it easy to see if the system is confuse two class i . commonly mislabeling one a another . it be a special kind of contingency table with two dimension actual and predicted and identical set of class in both dimension each combination of dimension and class be a variable in the contingency table . if a classification system ha been train to distinguish between cat dog and rabbit a confusion matrix will summarize the result of test the algorithm for further inspection . assume a sample of animal cat dog and rabbit the result confusion matrix could look like the table below . in predictive analytics a table of confusion sometimes also call a confusion matrix be a table with two row and two column that report the number of false positive false negative true positive and true negative . this allows more detail analysis than mere proportion of correct classification accuracy . accuracy be not a reliable metric for the real performance of a classifier because it will yield mislead result if the data set be unbalanced that be when the number of observation in different class vary greatly . for example if there be cat and only dog in the data set a particular classifier might classify all the observation a cat . the overall accuracy would be but in more detail the classifier would have a recognition rate sensitivity for the cat class but a recognition rate for the dog class . f score be even more unreliable in such case and here would yield over . whereas informedness remove such bias and yield a the probability of an informed decision for any form of guess here alway guess cat . assume the confusion matrix above it corresponding table of confusion for the cat class would be . the final table of confusion would contain the average value for all class combine . let u define an experiment from p positive instance and n negative instance for some condition . the four outcome can be formulate in a confusion matrix a follows .