the crossentropy ce method develop by reuven rubinstein be a general monte carlo approach to . combinatorial and continuous multiextremal optimization and importance sampling . the method originate from the field of rare event simulation where . very small probability need to be accurately estimate for example in network reliability analysis queueing model or performance analysis of telecommunication system . the ce method can be apply to static and noisy combinatorial optimization problem such a the traveling salesman problem the quadratic assignment problem dna sequence alignment the maxcut problem and the buff allocation problem as well a continuous global optimization problem with many local extremum . in a nutshell the ce method consists of two phase . consider the general problem of estimate the quantity . where formula be some performance function and formula be a member of some parametric family of distribution . use importance sample this quantity can be estimate as . where formula be a random sample from formula . for positive formula the theoretically optimal importance sample density pdf is give by . this however depend on the unknown formula . the ce method aim to approximate the optimal pdf by adaptively select member of the parametric family that be close in the kullbackleibler sense to the optimal pdf formula . in several case the solution to step can be find analytically . situation in which this occurs be . the same ce algorithm can be use for optimization rather than estimation . suppose the problem be to maximize some function formula for example . formula . to apply ce one considers first the associated stochastic problem of estimating . formula . for a give level formula and parametric family formula for example the dimensional . gaussian distribution . parameterized by it mean formula and variance formula so formula here . hence for a give formula the goal be to find formula so that . formula . be minimized . this is do by solve the sample version stochastic counterpart of the kl divergence minimization problem a in step above . it turn out that parameter that minimize the stochastic counterpart for this choice of target distribution and . parametric family be the sample mean and sample variance corresponding to the elite sample which be those sample that have objective function value formula . the bad of the elite sample is then use a the level parameter for the next iteration . this yield the follow randomized algorithm that happen to coincide with the socalled estimation of multivariate normal algorithm emna an estimation of distribution algorithm . mu sigma t maxits initialize parameter .