document classification or document categorization be a problem in library science information science and computer science . the task be to assign a document to one or more class or category . this may be do manually or intellectually or algorithmically . the intellectual classification of document ha mostly be the province of library science while the algorithmic classification of document be mainly in information science and computer science . the problem are overlap however and there be therefore interdisciplinary research on document classification . the document to be classify may be text image music etc . each kind of document possess it special classification problem . when not otherwise specify text classification is imply . document may be classify accord to their subject or accord to other attribute such a document type author printing year etc . in the rest of this article only subject classification is consider . there be two main philosophy of subject classification of document the contentbased approach and the requestbased approach . contentbased classification be classification in which the weight give to particular subject in a document determine the class to which the document is assign . it be for example a common rule for classification in library that at least of the content of a book should be about the class to which the book be assigned . in automatic classification it could be the number of time give word appears in a document . requestoriented classification or indexing be classification in which the anticipated request from user is influence how document are be classified . the classifier asks himself under which descriptor should this entity be find and think of all the possible query and decide for which ones the entity at hand be relevant soergel p . requestoriented classification may be classification that is target towards a particular audience or user group . for example a library or a database for feminist study may classifyindex document differently when compare to a historical library . it be probably well however to understand requestoriented classification a policybased classification the classification is do according to some ideal and reflect the purpose of the library or database do the classification . in this way it be not necessarily a kind of classification or indexing base on user study . only if empirical data about use or user are apply should requestoriented classification be regard a a userbased approach . sometimes a distinction is make between assign document to class classification versus assigning subject to document subject indexing but a frederick wilfrid lancaster ha argue this distinction be not fruitful . these terminological distinction he writes be quite meaningless and only serve to cause confusion lancaster p . the view that this distinction be purely superficial is also support by the fact that a classification system may be transform into a thesaurus and vice versa cf . aitchison broughton riesthuis bliedung . therefore be the act of label a document say by assign a term from a control vocabulary to a document at the same time to assign that document to the class of document index by that term all document index or classified a x belong to the same class of document . automatic document classification task can be divide into three sort supervise document classification where some external mechanism such a human feedback provide information on the correct classification for document unsupervised document classification also know a document clustering where the classification must be do entirely without reference to external information and semisupervised document classification where part of the document are label by the external mechanism . there be several software product under various license model available . automatic document classification technique include . classification technique have been apply to .