document hate be a project of propublica in collaboration with a number of journalistic academic and compute organization for systematic tracking of hate crime and bias incident . it use an online form to facilitate reporting of incident by the general public . since august it ha also use machine learn and natural language processing technique to monitor and collect news story about hate crime and bias incident . over news organization had join the project . document hate wa create in response to propublicas dissatisfaction with the quality of report and tracking of evidence of hate crime and bias incident after the united state presidential election of . the project wa launch on january after the publication on november of a propublica news story about the difficulty of obtain hard data on hate crime . on august propublica and google announce the creation of the documenting hate news index which use the google cloud natural language api for automate monitoring and collection of news story about hate crime and bias incident . the api use machine learn and natural language process technique . the finding of the index are integrate with report from member of the public . the index be a joint project of propublica google news lab and the data visualization studio pitch interactive . thousand of incident had been report via document hate . over news organization had join the project include the boston globe the new york time vox and the georgetown university hoya . an education reporter for the conservative daily caller ha criticize the project for ambiguity in the term it use to describe hate crime and for neglect of hatecrime hoax . another daily caller journalist have likewise criticize the documenting hate news index for underrepresentation of conservative outlet among the news source it monitor . a policy analyst for the center for data innovation an affiliate of the information technology and innovation foundation while support propublicas critique of the present state of hatecrime statistic and praising propublica for draw attention to the problem ha argue that a nongovernmental project like document hate cannot solve it unaided instead intervention at the federal level be needed .