in pac learn error tolerance refer to the ability of an algorithm to learn when the example receive have been corrupt in some way . in fact this be a very common and important issue since in many application it be not possible to access noisefree data . noise can interfere with the learning process at different level the algorithm may receive data that have be occasionally mislabeled or the input may have some false information or the classification of the example may have be maliciously adulterate . in the follow let formula be our formuladimensional input space . let formula be a class of function that we wish to use in order to learn a formulavalued target function formula define over formula . let formula be the distribution of the input over formula . the goal of a learning algorithm formula be to choose the best function formula such that it minimize formula . let u suppose we have a function formula that can measure the complexity of formula . let formula be an oracle that whenever call return an example formula and it correct label formula . when no noise corrupt the data we can define learn in the valiant setting . definition . we say that formula be efficiently learnable using formula in the valiant setting if there exist a learning algorithm formula that have access to formula and a polynomial formula such that for any formula and formula it output in a number of call to the oracle bound by formula a function formula that satisfy with probability at least formula the condition formula . in the follow we will define learnability of formula when data have suffer some modification . in the classification noise model a noise rate formula is introduce . then instead of formula that return always the correct label of example formula algorithm formula can only call a faulty oracle formula that will flip the label of formula with probability formula . as in the valiant case the goal of a learning algorithm formula be to choose the best function formula such that it minimize formula . in application it be difficult to have access to the real value of formula but we assume we have access to it upperbound formula . note that if we allow the noise rate to be formula then learn become impossible in any amount of computation time because every label convey no information about the target function . definition . we say that formula be efficiently learnable using formula in the classification noise model if there exist a learning algorithm formula that have access to formula and a polynomial formula such that for any formula formula and formula it output in a number of call to the oracle bound by formula a function formula that satisfy with probability at least formula the condition formula . statistical query learning be a kind of active learn problem in which the learn algorithm formula can decide if to request information about the likelihood formula that a function formula correctly label example formula and receive an answer accurate within a tolerance formula . formally whenever the learn algorithm formula call the oracle formula it receive a feedback probability formula such that formula . definition . we say that formula be efficiently learnable using formula in the statistical query learn model if there exist a learning algorithm formula that have access to formula and polynomial formula formula and formula such that for any formula the follow hold . note that the confidence parameter formula doe not appear in the definition of learn . this be because the main purpose of formula be to allow the learn algorithm a small probability of failure due to an unrepresentative sample . since now formula always guarantee to meet the approximation criterion formula the failure probability be no longer need . the statistical query model be strictly weak than the pac model any efficiently sqlearnable class be efficiently pac learnable in the presence of classification noise but there exist efficient paclearnable problems such a parity that be not efficiently sqlearnable . in the malicious classification model an adversary generates error to foil the learn algorithm . this setting describe situation of error burst which may occur when for a limited time transmission equipment malfunction repeatedly . formally algorithm formula call an oracle formula that return a correctly label example formula draw a usual from distribution formula over the input space with probability formula but it return with probability formula an example draw from a distribution that be not related to formula . moreover this maliciously choose example may strategically select by an adversary who have knowledge of formula formula formula or the current progress of the learn algorithm . definition . give a bound formula for formula we say that formula be efficiently learnable using formula in the malicious classification model if there exist a learn algorithm formula that have access to formula and a polynomial formula such that for any formula formula it output in a number of call to the oracle bound by formula a function formula that satisfy with probability at least formula the condition formula . in the nonuniform random attribute noise model the algorithm is learn a boolean function a malicious oracle formula may flip each formulath bit of example formula independently with probability formula . this type of error can irreparably foil the algorithm in fact the follow theorem hold . in the nonuniform random attribute noise set an algorithm formula can output a function formula such that formula only if formula .