the evaluation of binary classifier compare two method of assign a binary attribute one of which be usually a standard method and the other is be investigated . there be many metric that can be use to measure the performance of a classifier or predictor different field have different preference for specific metric due to different goal . for example in medicine sensitivity and specificity are often use while in computer science precision and recall are prefer . an important distinction be between metric that be independent on the prevalence how often each category occurs in the population and metric that depend on the prevalence both type be useful but they have very different property . give a data set a classification the output of a classifier on that set give two number the number of positive and the number of negative which add up to the total size of the set . to evaluate a classifier one compare it output to another reference classification ideally a perfect classification but in practice the output of another gold standard test and cross tabulate the data into a contingency table compare the two classification . one then evaluate the classifier relative to the gold standard by compute summary statistic of these number . generally these statistic will be scale invariant scale all the number by the same factor doe not change the output to make them independent of population size which is achieve by use ratio of homogeneous function most simply homogeneous linear or homogeneous quadratic function . say we test some people for the presence of a disease . some of these people have the disease and our test correctly say they be positive . they are call true positive tp . some have the disease but the test incorrectly claim they dont . they are call false negative fn . some dont have the disease and the test say they dont true negative tn . finally there might be healthy people who have a positive test result false positive fp . these can be arrange into a contingency table confusion matrix conventionally with the test result on the vertical axis and the actual condition on the horizontal axis . these number can then be total yielding both a grand total and marginal total . total the entire table the number of true positive false negative true negative and false positive add up to of the set . total the row adding horizontally the number of true positive and false positive add up to of the test positive and likewise for negative . total the column adding vertically the number of true positive and false negative add up to of the condition positive conversely for negative . the basic marginal ratio statistic are obtain by divide the value in the table by the marginal total either row or column yield auxiliary table for a total of ratio . these ratio come in complementary pair each pair sum to and so each of these derived table can be summarize a a pair of number together with their complement . further statistic can be obtain by take ratio of these ratios ratio of ratio or more complicated function . the contingency table and the most common derive ratio are summarize below see sequel for detail . note that the column correspond to the condition actually be positive or negative or classified a such by the gold standard a indicate by the colorcoding and the associate statistic be prevalenceindependent while the row correspond to the test be positive or negative and the associate statistic be prevalencedependent . there be analogous likelihood ratio for prediction value but these be less commonly use and not depict above . the fundamental prevalenceindependent statistic be sensitivity and specificity . sensitivity or true positive rate tpr also known a recall be the proportion of people that test positive and be positive true positive tp of all the people that actually be positive condition positive cp tp fn . it can be see a the probability that the test be positive give that the patient be sick . with high sensitivity few actual case of disease go undetected or in the case of the factory quality control fewer faulty product go to the market . specificity spc or true negative rate tnr be the proportion of people that test negative and be negative true negative tn of all the people that actually be negative condition negative cn tn fp . as with sensitivity it can be look at a the probability that the test result is negative give that the patient be not sick . with high specificity few healthy people are label a sick or in the factory case few good product are discard . the relationship between sensitivity and specificity as well a the performance of the classifier can be visualize and study use the receiver operating characteristic roc curve . in theory sensitivity and specificity be independent in the sense that it be possible to achieve in both such a in the redblue ball example give above . in more practical le contrive instances however there be usually a tradeoff such that they be inversely proportional to one another to some extent . this be because we rarely measure the actual thing we would like to classify rather we generally measure an indicator of the thing we would like to classify refer to a a surrogate marker . the reason why be achievable in the ball example be because redness and blueness is determine by directly detect redness and blueness . however indicator are sometimes compromise such a when nonindicators mimic indicator or when indicator are timedependent only become evident after a certain lag time . the follow example of a pregnancy test will make use of such an indicator . modern pregnancy test do not use the pregnancy itself to determine pregnancy status rather human chorionic gonadotropin is use or hcg present in the urine of gravid female a a surrogate marker to indicate that a woman be pregnant . because hcg can also be produce by a tumor the specificity of modern pregnancy test cannot be in that false positive be possible . also because hcg be present in the urine in such small concentration after fertilization and early embryogenesis the sensitivity of modern pregnancy test cannot be because false negative be possible . in addition to sensitivity and specificity the performance of a binary classification test can be measure with positive predictive value ppv also know a precision and negative predictive value npv . the positive prediction value answer the question if the test result be positive how well do that predict an actual presence of disease . it is calculate a tptp fp that be it be the proportion of true positive out of all positive result . the negative prediction value be the same but for negative naturally . prevalence have a significant impact on prediction value . a an example suppose there be a test for a disease with sensitivity and specificity . if people are test and the prevalence in the sample be of them be sick and of them be healthy . thus about true positive and true negative are likely with false positive and false negative . the positive and negative prediction value would be so there can be high confidence in the result . however if the prevalence be only so of the people only be really sick then the prediction value change significantly . the likely result be true positive false negative true negative and false positive . of the people test positive only really have the disease that mean intuitively that give that a patient test result be positive there be only chance that they really have the disease . on the other hand give that the patient test result be negative there be only chance in or . probability that the patient have the disease despite the test result . there be various relationship between these ratio . if the prevalence sensitivity and specificity are know the positive predictive value can be obtain from the follow identity . if the prevalence sensitivity and specificity are know the negative predictive value can be obtain from the follow identity . in addition to the paired metric there be also single metric that give a single number to evaluate the test . perhaps the simple statistic be accuracy or fraction correct fc which measure the fraction of all instance that are correctly categorize it be the ratio of the number of correct classification to the total number of correct or incorrect classification tp tntotal population tp tntp tn fp fn . this be often not very useful compare to the marginal ratio a it doe not yield useful marginal interpretation due to mix true positive test positive condition positive and true negative test negative condition negative in term of the condition table it sum the diagonal further it be prevalencedependent . the complement be the fraction incorrect fic fc fic or fp fntp tn fp fn this be the sum of the antidiagonal divide by the total population . the diagnostic odds ratio dor be a more useful overall metric which can be define directly a tptnfpfn tpfnfptn or indirectly a a ratio of ratio of ratios ratio of likelihood ratio which be themselves ratio of true rate or prediction value . this have a useful interpretation a an odds ratio and be prevalenceindependent . an fscore be a combination of the precision and the recall provide a single score . there be a oneparameter family of statistic with parameter which determine the relative weight of precision and recall . the traditional or balance fscore f score be the harmonic mean of precision and recall . note however that the fscores do not take the true negative rate into account and are more suit to information retrieval and information extraction evaluation where the true negative be innumerable . instead measure such a the phi coefficient matthew correlation coefficient informedness or cohens kappa may be preferable to assess the performance of a binary classifier . a a correlation coefficient the matthew correlation coefficient be the geometric mean of the regression coefficient of the problem and it dual . the component regression coefficient of the matthews correlation coefficient be markedness deltap and informedness youdens j statistic or deltap .