the term evolvability is use for a recent framework of computational learning introduce by leslie valiant in his paper of the same name and describe below . the aim of this theory be to model biological evolution and categorize which type of mechanism be evolvable . evolution be an extension of pac learn and learn from statistical query . let formula and formula be collection of function on formula variable . give an ideal function formula the goal be to find by local search a representation formula that closely approximates formula . this closeness is measure by the performance formula of formula with respect to formula . as be the case in the biological world there be a difference between genotype and phenotype . in general there can be multiple representation genotype that correspond to the same function phenotype . that be for some formula with formula still formula for all formula . however this need not be the case . the goal then be to find a representation that closely match the phenotype of the ideal function and the spirit of the local search be to allow only small change in the genotype . let the neighborhood formula of a representation formula be the set of possible mutation of formula . for simplicity consider boolean function on formula and let formula be a probability distribution on formula . define the performance in term of this . specifically . note that formula in general for nonboolean function the performance will not correspond directly to the probability that the function agree although it will have some relationship . throughout an organism life it will only experience a limit number of environment so it performance cannot be determined exactly . the empirical performance is define by . formula . where formula be a multiset of formula independent selection from formula accord to formula . if formula be large enough evidently formula will be close to the actual performance formula . give an ideal function formula initial representation formula sample size formula and tolerance formula the mutator formula be a random variable define a follows . each formula be classified a beneficial neutral or deleterious depending on it empirical performance . specifically . if there be any beneficial mutation then formula be equal to one of these at random . if there be no beneficial mutation then formula be equal to a random neutral mutation . in light of the similarity to biology formula itself is require to be available a a mutation so there will always be at least one neutral mutation . the intention of this definition be that at each stage of evolution all possible mutation of the current genome are test in the environment . out of the one who thrive or at least survive one is choose to be the candidate for the next stage . give formula we define the sequence formula by formula . thus formula be a random variable representing what formula ha evolve to after formula generation . let formula be a class of function formula be a class of representation and formula a class of distribution on formula . we say that formula be evolvable by formula over formula if there exists polynomials formula formula formula and formula such that for all formula and all formula for all ideal function formula and representation formula with probability at least formula . where the size of neighborhood formula for formula be at most formula the sample size be formula the tolerance be formula and the generation size be formula . formula be evolvable over formula if it be evolvable by some formula over formula . formula be evolvable if it be evolvable over all distribution formula . the class of conjunction and the class of disjunction be evolvable over the uniform distribution for short conjunction and disjunction respectively . the class of parity function which evaluate to the parity of the number of true literal in a give subset of literal be not evolvable even for the uniform distribution . evolvability imply pac learnability .