explanationbased learn ebl be a form of machine learning that exploit a very strong or even perfect domain theory in order to make generalization or form concept from training example . an example of ebl use a perfect domain theory be a program that learn to play chess through example . a specific chess position that contain an important feature such a forced loss of black queen in two move include many irrelevant feature such a the specific scattering of pawn on the board . ebl can take a single training example and determine what be the relevant feature in order to form a generalization . a domain theory be perfect or complete if it contain in principle all information need to decide any question about the domain . for example the domain theory for chess be simply the rule of chess . know the rule in principle it be possible to deduce the best move in any situation . however actually make such a deduction be impossible in practice due to combinatoric explosion . ebl us train example to make search for deductive consequence of a domain theory efficient in practice . in essence an ebl system work by find a way to deduce each training example from the system existing database of domain theory . have a short proof of the training example extend the domaintheory database enable the ebl system to find and classify future example that be similar to the training example very quickly . the main drawback of the methodthe cost of apply the learn proof macro a these become numerouswas analyze by minton . ebl software take four input . an especially good application domain for an ebl be natural language process nlp . here a rich domain theory i . a natural language grammaralthough neither perfect nor complete is tune to a particular application or particular language usage use a treebank train example . rayner pioneer this work . the first successful industrial application be to a commercial nl interface to relational database . the method ha be successfully apply to several largescale natural language parsing system where the utility problem wa solve by omit the original grammar domain theory and using specialized lrparsing technique result in huge speedup at a cost in coverage but with a gain in disambiguation . ebllike technique have also been apply to surface generation the converse of parsing . when apply ebl to nlp the operationality criterion can be handcraft or can be . inferred from the treebank use either the entropy of it ornodes . or a target coveragedisambiguation tradeoff recallprecision tradeoff fscore . ebl can also be use to compile grammarbased language model for speech recognition from general unification grammar . note how the utility problem first expose by minton wa solve by discard the original grammardomain theory and that the quoted article tend to contain the phrase grammar specializationquite the opposite of the original term explanationbased generalization . perhaps the best name for this technique would be datadriven search space reduction . other people who work on ebl for nlp include guenther neumann aravind joshi srinivas bangalore and khalil simaan .