unsupervised machine learning be the machine learning task of infer a function to describe hidden structure from unlabeled data a classification or categorization is not include in the observation . since the example give to the learner are unlabeled there be no evaluation of the accuracy of the structure that is output by the relevant algorithmwhich be one way of distinguish unsupervised learning from supervise learning and reinforcement learn . a central case of unsupervised learn be the problem of density estimation in statistic though unsupervised learning encompass many other problem and solution involving summarizing and explain key feature of the data . approach to unsupervised learn includethe classical example of unsupervised learn in the study of both natural and artificial neural network is subsume by donald hebbs principle that be neuron that fire together wire together . in hebbian learn the connection be reinforced irrespective of an error but be exclusively a function of the coincidence between action potential between the two neuron . a similar version that modify synaptic weight take into account the time between the action potential spiketimingdependent plasticity or stdp . hebbian learning ha been hypothesize to underlie a range of cognitive function such a pattern recognition and experiential learning . among neural network model the selforganizing map som and adaptive resonance theory art are commonly use in unsupervised learn algorithm . the som be a topographic organization in which nearby location in the map represent input with similar property . the art model allow the number of cluster to vary with problem size and let the user control the degree of similarity between member of the same cluster by mean of a userdefined constant call the vigilance parameter . art network are also use for many pattern recognition task such a automatic target recognition and seismic signal processing . the first version of art wa art develop by carpenter and grossberg . one of the statistical approach for unsupervised learn be the method of moment . in the method of moment the unknown parameter of interest in the model are relate to the moment of one or more random variable and thus these unknown parameter can be estimate give the moment . the moment be usually estimated from sample empirically . the basic moment be first and second order moment . for a random vector the first order moment be the mean vector and the second order moment be the covariance matrix when the mean be zero . high order moment are usually represent use tensor which be the generalization of matrix to higher order a multidimensional array . in particular the method of moment is show to be effective in learn the parameter of latent variable model . latent variable model be statistical model where in addition to the observe variable a set of latent variable also exist which is not observe . a highly practical example of latent variable model in machine learning be the topic modeling which be a statistical model for generate the word observe variable in the document base on the topic latent variable of the document . in the topic modeling the word in the document are generate according to different statistical parameter when the topic of the document is change . it is show that method of moment tensor decomposition technique consistently recover the parameter of a large class of latent variable model under some assumption . the expectationmaximization algorithm em be also one of the most practical method for learn latent variable model . however it can get stick in local optimum and it be not guaranteed that the algorithm will converge to the true unknown parameter of the model . in contrast for the method of moment the global convergence is guarantee under some condition . behavioralbased detection in network security ha become a good application area for a combination of supervise and unsupervised machine learn . this be because the amount of data for a human security analyst to analyze be impossible measure in terabyte per day to review to find pattern and anomaly . accord to giora engel cofounder of lightcyber in a dark read article the great promise machine learn hold for the security industry be it ability to detect advanced and unknown attacksparticularly those leading to data breach . the basic premise be that a motivate attacker will find their way into a network generally by compromise a user computer or network account through phishing social engineering or malware . the security challenge then becomes find the attacker by their operational activity which include reconnaissance lateral movement command control and exfiltration . these activitiesespecially reconnaissance and lateral movementstand in contrast to an establish baseline of normal or good activity for each user and device on the network . the role of machine learning be to create ongoing profile for user and device and then find meaningful anomaly .