grammar induction or grammatical inference be the process in machine learn of learn a formal grammar usually a a collection of rewrite rule or production or alternatively a a finite state machine or automaton of some kind from a set of observation thus construct a model which account for the characteristic of the observe object . more generally grammatical inference be that branch of machine learn where the instance space consists of discrete combinatorial object such a string tree and graph . grammatical inference ha often been very focus on the problem of learn finite state machine of various type see the article induction of regular language for detail on these approach since there have be efficient algorithm for this problem since the s . since the beginning of the century these approach have been extend to the problem of inference of contextfree grammar and richer formalisms such a multiple contextfree grammar and parallel multiple contextfree grammar . other class of grammar for which grammatical inference ha been study be contextual grammar and pattern language . the simple form of learn be where the learning algorithm merely receive a set of example draw from the language in question the aim be to learn the language from example of it and rarely from counterexample that be example that do not belong to the language . however other learning model have be study . one frequently study alternative be the case where the learner can ask membership query a in the exact query learn model or minimally adequate teacher model introduce by angluin . there be a wide variety of method for grammatical inference . two of the classic source be and . also devote a brief section to the problem and cite a number of reference . the basic trialanderror method they present is discuss below . for approach to infer subclass of regular language in particular see induction of regular language . a more recent textbook be de la higuera which cover the theory of grammatical inference of regular language and finite state automaton . dulizia ferri and grifoni provide a survey that explore grammatical inference method for natural language . the method propose in section . of suggests successively guess grammar rule production and test them against positive and negative observation . the rule set is expand so a to be able to generate each positive example but if a give rule set also generate a negative example it must be discard . this particular approach can be characterize a hypothesis testing and bear some similarity to mitchels version space algorithm . the text provide a simple example which nicely illustrate the process but the feasibility of such an unguided trialanderror approach for more substantial problem be dubious . grammatical induction using evolutionary algorithm be the process of evolve a representation of the grammar of a target language through some evolutionary process . formal grammar can easily be represent a tree structure of production rule that can be subject to evolutionary operator . algorithm of this sort stem from the genetic programming paradigm pioneer by john koza . other early work on simple formal language use the binary string representation of genetic algorithm but the inherently hierarchical structure of grammar couch in the ebnf language make tree a more flexible approach . koza represent lisp program a tree . he be able to find analogue to the genetic operator within the standard set of tree operator . for example swapping subtrees be equivalent to the corresponding process of genetic crossover where substring of a genetic code are transplant into an individual of the next generation . fitness is measure by score the output from the function of the lisp code . similar analogue between the tree structure lisp representation and the representation of grammar a tree make the application of genetic programming technique possible for grammar induction . in the case of grammar induction the transplantation of subtrees corresponds to the swapping of production rule that enable the parsing of phrase from some language . the fitness operator for the grammar is base upon some measure of how well it perform in parse some group of sentence from the target language . in a tree representation of a grammar a terminal symbol of a production rule corresponds to a leaf node of the tree . it parent node correspond to a nonterminal symbol e . a noun phrase or a verb phrase in the rule set . ultimately the root node might correspond to a sentence nonterminal . like all greedy algorithm greedy grammar inference algorithm make in iterative manner decision that seem to be the best at that stage . the decision make usually deal with thing like the creation of new rule the removal of exist rule the choice of a rule to be apply or the merging of some existing rule . because there be several way to define the stage and the best there be also several greedy grammar inference algorithm . these contextfree grammar generating algorithm make the decision after every read symbol . these contextfree grammar generating algorithm first read the whole given symbolsequence and then start to make decision . a more recent approach is base on distributional learn . algorithm use these approach have been apply to learn contextfree grammar and mildly contextsensitive language and have be prove to be correct and efficient for large subclass of these grammar . angluin define a pattern to be a string of constant symbol from and variable symbol from a disjoint set . the language of such a pattern be the set of all it nonempty grind instance i . all string result from consistent replacement of it variable symbol by nonempty string of constant symbol . a pattern is call descriptive for a finite input set of string if it language be minimal with respect to set inclusion among all pattern language subsume the input set . angluin give a polynomial algorithm to compute for a given input string set all descriptive pattern in one variable x . to this end she build an automaton representing all possibly relevant pattern using sophisticate argument about word length which rely on x be the only variable the state count can be drastically reduce . erlebach et al . give a more efficient version of angluins pattern learn algorithm as well a a parallelized version . arimura et al . show that a language class obtain from limited union of pattern can be learn in polynomial time . pattern theory formulate by ulf grenander be a mathematical formalism to describe knowledge of the world a pattern . it differ from other approach to artificial intelligence in that it doe not begin by prescribing algorithm and machinery to recognize and classify pattern rather it prescribe a vocabulary to articulate and recast the pattern concepts in precise language . in addition to the new algebraic vocabulary it statistical approach be novel in it aim to . broad in it mathematical coverage pattern theory span algebra and statistic as well a local topological and global entropic property . the principle of grammar induction ha been apply to other aspect of natural language process and ha been apply among many other problem to natural language understanding examplebased translation morpheme analysis and place name derivation . grammar induction ha also been use for lossless data compression and statistical inference via minimum message length mml and minimum description length mdl principle . grammar induction ha also been use in some probabilistic model of language acquisition .