pattern recognition be a very active field of research intimately bound to machine learn . also know a classification or statistical classification pattern recognition aim at build a classifier that can determine the class of an input pattern . this procedure know a training corresponds to learn an unknown decision function base only on a set of inputoutput pair formula that form the training data or training set . nonetheless in real world application such a character recognition a certain amount of information on the problem be usually known beforehand . the incorporation of this prior knowledge into the training be the key element that will allow an increase of performance in many application . prior knowledge refer to all information about the problem available in addition to the training data . however in this most general form determine a model from a finite set of sample without prior knowledge be an illposed problem in the sense that a unique model may not exist . many classifier incorporate the general smoothness assumption that a test pattern similar to one of the training sample tend to be assign to the same class . the importance of prior knowledge in machine learning is suggest by it role in search and optimization . loosely the no free lunch theorem state that all search algorithm have the same average performance over all problem and thus implies that to gain in performance on a certain application one must use a specialized algorithm that include some prior knowledge about the problem . the different type of prior knowledge encounter in pattern recognition are now regroup under two main category classinvariance and knowledge on the data . a very common type of prior knowledge in pattern recognition be the invariance of the class or the output of the classifier to a transformation of the input pattern . this type of knowledge is refer to a transformationinvariance . the mostly use transformation use in image recognition areincorporating the invariance to a transformation formula parametrized in formula into a classifier of output formula for an input pattern formula corresponds to enforce the equalitylocal invariance can also be consider for a transformation center at formula so that formula by use the constraintthe function formula in these equation can be either the decision function of the classifier or it realvalued output . another approach be to consider classinvariance with respect to a domain of the input space instead of a transformation . in this case the problem becomes find formula so thatwhere formula be the membership class of the region formula of the input space . a different type of classinvariance found in pattern recognition be permutationinvariance i . invariance of the class to a permutation of element in a structured input . a typical application of this type of prior knowledge be a classifier invariant to permutation of row of the matrix input . other form of prior knowledge than classinvariance concern the data more specifically and be thus of particular interest for realworld application . the three particular case that most often occur when gather data areprior knowledge of these can enhance the quality of the recognition if include in the learning . moreover not take into account the poor quality of some data or a large imbalance between the class can mislead the decision of a classifier .