feature engineering be the process of use domain knowledge of the data to create feature that make machine learn algorithm work . feature engineering be fundamental to the application of machine learn and be both difficult and expensive . the need for manual feature engineering can be obviate by automated feature learn . feature engineering be an informal topic but it is consider essential in apply machine learn . a feature be an attribute or property share by all of the independent unit on which analysis or prediction be to be do . any attribute could be a feature as long a it be useful to the model . the purpose of a feature other than be an attribute would be much easier to understand in the context of a problem . a feature be a characteristic that might help when solve the problem . the feature in your data be important to the predictive model you use and will influence the result you are go to achieve . the quality and quantity of the feature will have great influence on whether the model be good or not . you could say the good the feature be the well the result be . this isnt entirely true because the result achieve also depend on the model and the data not just the chosen feature . that say choose the right feature be still very important . good feature can produce simple and more flexible model and they often yield good result . depend on a feature it could be strongly relevant ha information that doesnt exist in any other feature relevant weakly relevant some information that other feature include or irrelevant . it be important to create a lot of feature . even if some of them be irrelevant you cant afford miss the rest . afterwards feature selection can be use in order to prevent overfitting . feature explosion can be cause by feature combination or feature template both lead to a quick growth in the total number of feature . there be a few solution to help stop feature explosion such a regularization kernel method feature selection . automation of feature engineering ha become an emerge topic of research in academia . in researcher at mit present the deep feature synthesis algorithm and demonstrate it effectiveness in online data science competition where it beat of human team . deep feature synthesis be available a an open source library call featuretools . that work wa follow by other researcher include ibms onebm and berkeleys explorekit . the researcher at ibm state that feature engineering automation help data scientist reduce data exploration time allow them to try and error many idea in short time . on the other hand it enable nonexperts who be not familiar with data science to quickly extract value from their data with a little effort time and cost . commercial tool have emerge from new machine learn focused startup include h . ai and feature lab .