instantaneously train neural network be feedforward artificial neural network propose by subhash kak that create a new hidden neuron node for each novel train sample . the weight to this hidden neuron separate out not only this training sample but others that be near it thus provide generalization . this separation is do use the near hyperplane that can be write down instantaneously . in the two most important implementation the neighborhood of generalization either varies with the training sample cc network or remain constant cc network these network use unary coding for an effective representation of the data set . instantaneously train neural network have been propose a model of short term learn and use in web search and financial time series prediction application . they have also been use in instant classification of document and for deep learn and data mine . a in other neural network their normal use be a software but they have also been implement in hardware use fpgas and by optical implementation . in the cc network which be a threestage network the number of input node be one more than the size of the training vector with the extra node serving a the bias node whose input be always . for binary input vectors the weight from the input node to the hidden neuron say of index j correspond to the train vector is give by the follow formula . where formula be the radius of generalization and formula be the hamming weight the number of s of the binary sequence . from the hidden layer to the output layer the weight are or depend on whether the vector belong to a give output class or not . the neuron in the hidden and output layer output if the weight sum to the input be or positive and if the weight sum to the input be negative . the cc network ha also been modify to include nonbinary input with vary radius of generalization so that it effectively provide a cc implementation . in feedback network the willshaw network as well a the hopfield network be able to learn instantaneously .