knowledge integration be the process of synthesize multiple knowledge model or representation into a common model representation . compare to information integration which involves merging information have different schema and representation model knowledge integration focus more on synthesize the understanding of a give subject from different perspective . for example multiple interpretation be possible of a set of student grade typically each from a certain perspective . an overall integrate view and understanding of this information can be achieve if these interpretation can be put under a common model say a student performance index . the webbased inquiry science environment wise from the university of california at berkeley ha be developed along the line of knowledge integration theory . knowledge integration ha also been study a the process of incorporate new information into a body of exist knowledge with an interdisciplinary approach . this process involves determine how the new information and the exist knowledge interact how exist knowledge should be modify to accommodate the new information and how the new information should be modify in light of the existing knowledge . a learn agent that actively investigate the consequence of new information can detect and exploit a variety of learn opportunity e . to resolve knowledge conflict and to fill knowledge gap . by exploit these learning opportunity the learning agent be able to learn beyond the explicit content of the new information . the machine learn program ki develop by murray and porter at the university of texas at austin wa create to study the use of automate and semiautomated knowledge integration to assist knowledge engineer construct a large knowledge base . a possible technique which can be use be semantic matching . more recently a technique useful to minimize the effort in map validation and visualization ha been present which is base on minimal mapping . minimal mapping be high quality mapping such that i all the other mapping can be compute from them in time linear in the size of the input graph and ii none of them can be drop without lose property i . the university of waterloo operates a bachelor of knowledge integration undergraduate degree program a an academic major or minor . the program start in .