a learning automaton be one type of machine learn algorithm study since s . learn automaton select their current action base on past experience from the environment . it will fall into the range of reinforcement learn if the environment be stochastic and markov decision process mdp is use . research in learn automaton can be trace back to the work of michael lvovitch tsetlin in the early s in the soviet union . together with some colleague he publish a collection of paper on how to use matrix to describe automata function . additionally tsetlin work on reasonable and collective automaton behaviour and on automaton game . learn automaton were also investigate by research in the united state in the s . however the term learn automaton wa not use until narendra and thathachar introduce it in a survey paper in . a learn automaton be an adaptive decisionmaking unit situate in a random environment that learn the optimal action through repeat interaction with it environment . the action are chosen accord to a specific probability distribution which is update base on the environment response the automaton obtains by perform a particular action . with respect to the field of reinforcement learn learning automaton are characterize a policy iterators . in contrast to other reinforcement learner policy iterators directly manipulate the policy . another example for policy iterators be evolutionary algorithm . formally narendra and thathachar define a stochastic automaton to consist of . in their paper they investigate only stochastic automaton with r and g be bijective allow them to confuse action and state . the state of such an automaton correspond to the state of a discretestate discreteparameter markov process . at each time step t . the automaton read an input from it environment update pt to pt by a randomly chooses a successor state accord to the probability pt and output the corresponding action . the automaton environment in turn read the action and send the next input to the automaton . frequently the input set x is use with and correspond to a nonpenalty and a penalty response of the environment respectively in this case the automaton should learn to minimize the number of penalty response and the feedback loop of automaton and environment is call a pmodel . more generally a qmodel allow an arbitrary finite input set x and an smodel use the interval of real number a x . finite actionset learn automaton fala be a class of learn automaton for which the number of possible action be finite or in more mathematical term for which the size of the actionset be finite .