in probability and statistic base rate generally refer to the base class probability unconditioned on featural evidence frequently also know a prior probability . for example if it be the case that of the public be medical professional and of the public be not medical professional then the base rate of medical professional be simply . in the science include medicine the base rate be critical for comparison . it may at first seem impressive that people beat their winter cold while use treatment x until we look at the entire treatment x population and find that the base rate of success be only i . people try the treatment but the other people never really beat their winter cold . the treatment effectiveness be clear when such base rate information i . people . out of how many be available . note that control may likewise offer further information for comparison maybe the control group who were use no treatment at all have their own base rate success of . control thus indicate that treatment x make thing worse despite that initial proud claim about people . the normative method for integrate base rat prior probability and featural evidence likelihood is give by bayes rule . a large number of psychological study have examine a phenomenon call baserate neglect or base rate fallacy in which category base rate are not integrate with featural evidence in the normative manner . mathematician keith devlin provide an illustration of the risk of this he ask u to imagine that there be a type of cancer that afflicts of all people . a doctor then say there be a test for that cancer which be about reliable . he also say that the test provide a positive result for of people who have the cancer but it also result in a false positive for of people who do not have the cancer . now if we test positive we may be tempt to think it be likely that we have the cancer . devlin explain that in fact our odds be less than . what is miss from the jumble of statistic be the most relevant base rate information . we should ask the doctor out of the number of people who test positive this be the base rate group that we care about how many have the cancer in assess the probability that a give individual be a member of a particular class we must account for other information besides the base rate . in particular we must account for featural evidence . for example when we see a person wear a white doctor coat and stethoscope and prescribing medication we have evidence which may allow u to conclude that the probability of this particular individual be a medical professional be considerably great than the category base rate of .