in machine learn local casecontrol sampling be an algorithm use to reduce the complexity of train a logistic regression classifier . the algorithm reduce the training complexity by select a small subsample of the original dataset for training . it assume the availability of a unreliable pilot estimation of the parameter . it then perform a single pas over the entire dataset use the pilot estimation to identify the most surprising sample . in practice the pilot may come from prior knowledge or training use a subsample of the dataset . the algorithm be most effective when the underlying dataset be imbalanced . it exploit the structure of conditional imbalanced datasets more efficiently than alternative method such a case control sample and weighted case control sampling . in classification a dataset be a set of n data point formula where formula be a feature vector formula be a label . intuitively a dataset be imbalanced when certain important statistical pattern be rare . the lack of observation of certain pattern doe not always imply their irrelevance . for example in medical study of rare disease the small number of infect patient case convey the most valuable information for diagnosis and treatment . formally an imbalanced dataset exhibit one or more of the follow property . in logistic regression give the model formula the prediction is made accord to formula . the localcase control sampling algorithm assume the availability of a pilot model formula . give the pilot model the algorithm performs a single pas over the entire dataset to select the subset of sample to include in train the logistic regression model . for a sample formula define the acceptance probability a formula . the algorithm proceeds a follows . the algorithm can be understand a select sample that surprise the pilot model . intuitively these sample are closer to the decision boundary of the classifier and be thus more informative . in practice for case where a pilot model be naturally available the algorithm can be apply directly to reduce the complexity of training . in case where a natural pilot be nonexistent an estimate use a subsample select through another sampling technique can be use instead . in the original paper describe the algorithm the author propose to use weight casecontrol sample with half the assign sampling budget . for example if the objective be to use a subsample with size formula first estimate a model formula use formula sample from weight case control sampling then collect another formula sample use local casecontrol sample . it be possible to control the sample size by multiply the acceptance probability with a constant formula . for a large sample size pick formula and adjust the acceptance probability to formula . for a small sample size the same strategy applies . in case where the number of sample desire is precise a convenient alternative method be to uniformly downsample from a large subsample select by local casecontrol sampling . the algorithm have the follow property . when the pilot is consistent the estimate use the sample from local casecontrol sampling be consistent even under model misspecification . if the model be correct then the algorithm have exactly twice the asymptotic variance of logistic regression on the full data set . for a larger sample size with formula the factor is improve to formula .