machine learning be a field of computer science that often use statistical technique to give computer the ability to learn i . progressively improve performance on a specific task with data without be explicitly programmed . the name machine learning wa coin in by arthur samuel . evolve from the study of pattern recognition and computational learning theory in artificial intelligence machine learning explore the study and construction of algorithm that can learn from and make prediction on data such algorithm overcome follow strictly static program instruction by make datadriven prediction or decision through build a model from sample input . machine learning is employ in a range of compute task where design and program explicit algorithm with good performance be difficult or infeasible example application include email filter detection of network intruder or malicious insider work towards a data breach optical character recognition ocr learn to rank and computer vision . machine learning be closely related to and often overlap with computational statistic which also focus on predictionmaking through the use of computer . it ha strong tie to mathematical optimization which delivers method theory and application domain to the field . machine learning be sometimes conflated with data mining where the latter subfield focus more on exploratory data analysis and is know a unsupervised learn . machine learning can also be unsupervised and be use to learn and establish baseline behavioral profile for various entity and then use to find meaningful anomaly . within the field of data analytics machine learning be a method used to devise complex model and algorithm that lend themselves to prediction in commercial use this is know a predictive analytics . these analytical model allow researcher data scientist engineer and analyst to produce reliable repeatable decision and result and uncover hidden insight through learn from historical relationship and trend in the data . tom m . mitchell provide a widely quote more formal definition of the algorithm study in the machine learning field a computer program is say to learn from experience e with respect to some class of task t and performance measure p if it performance at task in t a measure by p improves with experience e . this definition of the task in which machine learn is concern offer a fundamentally operational definition rather than define the field in cognitive term . this follow alan turing proposal in his paper compute machinery and intelligence in which the question can machine think is replace with the question can machine do what we a think entity can do . in turing proposal the various characteristic that could be possess by a thinking machine and the various implication in construct one are expose . machine learning task are typically classify into two broad category depend on whether there be a learn signal or feedback available to a learning system . another categorization of machine learn task arises when one consider the desire output of a machinelearned system . among other category of machine learn problem learn to learn learns it own inductive bias base on previous experience . developmental learning elaborated for robot learn generates it own sequence also call curriculum of learn situation to cumulatively acquire repertoire of novel skill through autonomous selfexploration and social interaction with human teacher and use guidance mechanism such a active learn maturation motor synergy and imitation . arthur samuel an american pioneer in the field of computer game and artificial intelligence coin the term machine learn in while at ibm . a a scientific endeavour machine learn grew out of the quest for artificial intelligence . already in the early day of ai a an academic discipline some researcher were interest in have machine learn from data . they attempt to approach the problem with various symbolic method as well a what were then term neural network these be mostly perceptrons and other model that were later find to be reinventions of the generalize linear model of statistic . probabilistic reasoning wa also employ especially in automate medical diagnosis . however an increase emphasis on the logical knowledgebased approach cause a rift between ai and machine learn . probabilistic system were plague by theoretical and practical problem of data acquisition and representation . by expert system had come to dominate ai and statistic be out of favor . work on symbolicknowledgebased learning did continue within ai lead to inductive logic programming but the more statistical line of research be now outside the field of ai proper in pattern recognition and information retrieval . neural network research had been abandon by ai and computer science around the same time . this line too wa continue outside the aics field a connectionism by researcher from other discipline include hopfield rumelhart and hinton . their main success come in the mids with the reinvention of backpropagation . machine learning reorganize a a separate field start to flourish in the s . the field change it goal from achieve artificial intelligence to tackle solvable problem of a practical nature . it shift focus away from the symbolic approach it had inherit from ai and toward method and model borrow from statistic and probability theory . it also benefit from the increase availability of digitized information and the ability to distribute it via the internet . machine learn and data mining often employ the same method and overlap significantly but while machine learn focus on prediction base on known property learn from the training data data mine focus on the discovery of previously unknown property in the data this be the analysis step of knowledge discovery in database . data mining use many machine learn method but with different goal on the other hand machine learn also employ data mining method a unsupervised learning or a a preprocessing step to improve learner accuracy . much of the confusion between these two research community which do often have separate conference and separate journal ecml pkdd be a major exception come from the basic assumption they work with in machine learning performance be usually evaluated with respect to the ability to reproduce known knowledge while in knowledge discovery and data mine kdd the key task be the discovery of previously unknown knowledge . evaluated with respect to know knowledge an uninformed unsupervised method will easily be outperform by other supervise method while in a typical kdd task supervise method cannot be use due to the unavailability of training data . machine learn also have intimate tie to optimization many learn problem are formulate a minimization of some loss function on a training set of example . loss function express the discrepancy between the prediction of the model being train and the actual problem instance for example in classification one want to assign a label to instance and model are train to correctly predict the preassigned label of a set of example . the difference between the two field arise from the goal of generalization while optimization algorithm can minimize the loss on a training set machine learn is concern with minimize the loss on unseen sample . machine learn and statistic be closely related field . accord to michael i . jordan the idea of machine learn from methodological principle to theoretical tool have have a long prehistory in statistic . he also suggest the term data science a a placeholder to call the overall field . leo breiman distinguish two statistical modelling paradigm data model and algorithmic model wherein algorithmic model mean more or le the machine learn algorithm like random forest . some statistician have adopt method from machine learning leading to a combine field that they call statistical learn . a core objective of a learner be to generalize from it experience . generalization in this context be the ability of a learning machine to perform accurately on new unseen examplestasks after having experience a learning data set . the training example come from some generally unknown probability distribution consider representative of the space of occurrence and the learner have to build a general model about this space that enable it to produce sufficiently accurate prediction in new case . the computational analysis of machine learn algorithm and their performance be a branch of theoretical computer science known a computational learning theory . because train set be finite and the future be uncertain learning theory usually doe not yield guarantee of the performance of algorithm . instead probabilistic bound on the performance be quite common . the biasvariance decomposition be one way to quantify generalization error . for the best performance in the context of generalization the complexity of the hypothesis should match the complexity of the function underlie the data . if the hypothesis be less complex than the function then the model have underfit the data . if the complexity of the model is increase in response then the train error decrease . but if the hypothesis be too complex then the model be subject to overfitting and generalization will be poorer . in addition to performance bound computational learning theorist study the time complexity and feasibility of learn . in computational learning theory a computation is consider feasible if it can be do in polynomial time . there be two kind of time complexity result . positive result show that a certain class of function can be learn in polynomial time . negative result show that certain class cannot be learn in polynomial time . decision tree learn use a decision tree a a predictive model which map observation about an item to conclusion about the item target value . association rule learn be a method for discover interesting relation between variable in large database . an artificial neural network ann learn algorithm usually call neural network nn be a learning algorithm that is vaguely inspire by biological neural network . computation are structure in term of an interconnected group of artificial neuron process information use a connectionist approach to computation . modern neural network be nonlinear statistical data modeling tool . they are usually use to model complex relationship between input and output to find pattern in data or to capture the statistical structure in an unknown joint probability distribution between observe variable . fall hardware price and the development of gpus for personal use in the last few year have contribute to the development of the concept of deep learn which consists of multiple hidden layer in an artificial neural network . this approach try to model the way the human brain process light and sound into vision and hear . some successful application of deep learn be computer vision and speech recognition . inductive logic programming ilp be an approach to rule learn use logic programming a a uniform representation for input example background knowledge and hypothesis . give an encoding of the known background knowledge and a set of example represent a a logical database of fact an ilp system will derive a hypothesize logic program that entail all positive and no negative example . inductive programming be a related field that consider any kind of programming language for represent hypothesis and not only logic programming such a functional program . support vector machine svms be a set of relate supervised learn method use for classification and regression . give a set of training example each mark a belong to one of two category an svm training algorithm build a model that predict whether a new example fall into one category or the other . cluster analysis be the assignment of a set of observation into subset call cluster so that observation within the same cluster be similar according to some predesignated criterion or criterion while observation draw from different cluster be dissimilar . different clustering technique make different assumption on the structure of the data often define by some similarity metric and evaluated for example by internal compactness similarity between member of the same cluster and separation between different cluster . other method are base on estimate density and graph connectivity . clustering be a method of unsupervised learn and a common technique for statistical data analysis . a bayesian network belief network or direct acyclic graphical model be a probabilistic graphical model that represent a set of random variable and their conditional independency via a direct acyclic graph dag . for example a bayesian network could represent the probabilistic relationship between disease and symptom . give symptoms the network can be use to compute the probability of the presence of various disease . efficient algorithm exist that perform inference and learn . reinforcement learning be concerned with how an agent ought to take action in an environment so a to maximize some notion of longterm reward . reinforcement learn algorithm attempt to find a policy that map state of the world to the action the agent ought to take in those state . reinforcement learn differs from the supervise learn problem in that correct inputoutput pair are never present nor suboptimal action explicitly correct . several learning algorithm mostly unsupervised learn algorithm aim at discover good representation of the input provide during training . classical example include principal component analysis and cluster analysis . representation learn algorithms often attempt to preserve the information in their input but transform it in a way that make it useful often a a preprocessing step before perform classification or prediction allow reconstruction of the input come from the unknown data generate distribution while not be necessarily faithful for configuration that be implausible under that distribution . manifold learn algorithm attempt to do so under the constraint that the learned representation be lowdimensional . sparse coding algorithm attempt to do so under the constraint that the learn representation be sparse have many zero . multilinear subspace learn algorithm aim to learn lowdimensional representation directly from tensor representation for multidimensional data without reshape them into highdimensional vector . deep learn algorithm discover multiple level of representation or a hierarchy of feature with higherlevel more abstract feature define in term of or generate lowerlevel feature . it ha been argue that an intelligent machine be one that learn a representation that disentangle the underlying factor of variation that explain the observed data . in this problem the learn machine is give pair of example that are consider similar and pair of less similar object . it then need to learn a similarity function or a distance metric function that can predict if new object be similar . it be sometimes used in recommendation system . in this method a datum is represent a a linear combination of basis function and the coefficient are assume to be sparse . let x be a ddimensional datum d be a d by n matrix where each column of d represents a basis function . r be the coefficient to represent x use d . mathematically sparse dictionary learning mean solving formula where r be sparse . generally speaking n is assume to be large than d to allow the freedom for a sparse representation . learn a dictionary along with sparse representation be strongly nphard and also difficult to solve approximately . a popular heuristic method for sparse dictionary learn be ksvd . sparse dictionary learn ha been apply in several context . in classification the problem be to determine which class a previously unseen datum belongs to . suppose a dictionary for each class ha already be built . then a new datum is associate with the class such that it best sparsely represent by the corresponding dictionary . sparse dictionary learn ha also been apply in image denoising . the key idea be that a clean image patch can be sparsely represent by an image dictionary but the noise cannot . a genetic algorithm ga be a search heuristic that mimic the process of natural selection and use method such a mutation and crossover to generate new genotype in the hope of find good solution to a given problem . in machine learning genetic algorithm find some us in the s and s . conversely machine learning technique have been use to improve the performance of genetic and evolutionary algorithm . rulebased machine learning be a general term for any machine learn method that identify learns or evolve rule to store manipulate or apply knowledge . the defining characteristic of a rulebased machine learner be the identification and utilization of a set of relational rule that collectively represent the knowledge capture by the system . this be in contrast to other machine learner that commonly identify a singular model that can be universally apply to any instance in order to make a prediction . rulebased machine learn approach include learn classifier system association rule learn and artificial immune system . learn classifier system lcs be a family of rulebased machine learn algorithm that combine a discovery component e . typically a genetic algorithm with a learning component perform either supervised learning reinforcement learn or unsupervised learn . they seek to identify a set of contextdependent rule that collectively store and apply knowledge in a piecewise manner in order to make prediction . application for machine learn include . in the online movie company netflix hold the first netflix prize competition to find a program to good predict user preference and improve the accuracy on it existing cinematch movie recommendation algorithm by at least . a joint team make up of researcher from att labsresearch in collaboration with the team big chaos and pragmatic theory build an ensemble model to win the grand prize in for million . shortly after the prize wa award netflix realize that viewer rating be not the best indicator of their viewing pattern everything be a recommendation and they change their recommendation engine accordingly . in the wall street journal wrote about the firm rebellion research and their use of machine learn to predict the financial crisis . in cofounder of sun microsystems vinod khosla predict that of medical doctor job would be lose in the next two decades to automated machine learn medical diagnostic software . in it ha been report that a machine learn algorithm ha been apply in art history to study fine art painting and that it may have reveal previously unrecognized influence between artist . although machine learn ha be very transformative in some field effective machine learning be difficult because finding pattern be hard and often not enough training data be available a a result machinelearning program often fail to deliver . classification machine learning model can be validate by accuracy estimation technique like the holdout method which split the data in a training and test set conventionally train set and test set designation and evaluates the performance of the training model on the test set . in comparison the nfoldcrossvalidation method randomly split the data in k subset where the k instance of the data are use to train the model while the kth instance is use to test the predictive ability of the training model . in addition to the holdout and crossvalidation method bootstrap which sample n instance with replacement from the dataset can be use to assess model accuracy . in addition to overall accuracy investigator frequently report sensitivity and specificity meaning true positive rate tpr and true negative rate tnr respectively . similarly investigator sometimes report the false positive rate fpr as well a the false negative rate fnr . however these rate be ratio that fail to reveal their numerator and denominator . the total operating characteristic toc be an effective method to express a model diagnostic ability . toc show the numerator and denominator of the previously mention rate thus toc provides more information than the commonly use receiver operate characteristic roc and rocs associate area under the curve auc . machine learning pose a host of ethical question . system which are train on datasets collect with bias may exhibit these bias upon use algorithmic bias thus digitizing cultural prejudice . for example use job hire data from a firm with racist hiring policy may lead to a machine learning system duplicate the bias by score job applicant against similarity to previous successful applicant . responsible collection of data and documentation of algorithmic rule use by a system thus be a critical part of machine learn . because language contains bias machine train on language corpus will necessarily also learn bias . other form of ethical challenge not related to personal bias be more see in health care . there be concern among health care professional that these system might not be design in the public interest but a income generating machine . this be especially true in the united state where there be a perpetual ethical dilemma of improve health care but also increase profit . for example the algorithm could be design to provide patient with unnecessary test or medication in which the algorithm proprietary owner hold stake in . there be huge potential for machine learn in health care to provide professional a great tool to diagnose medicate and even plan recovery path for patient but this will not happen until the personal bias mention previously and these greed bias are address . software suite contain a variety of machine learn algorithm include the follow .