cognitive robotics is concern with endow a robot with intelligent behavior by provide it with a process architecture that will allow it to learn and reason about how to behave in response to complex goal in a complex world . cognitive robotics may be consider the engineering branch of embodied cognitive science and embody embed cognition . while traditional cognitive modeling approach have assume symbolic coding scheme a a mean for depict the world translate the world into these kind of symbolic representation ha prove to be problematic if not untenable . perception and action and the notion of symbolic representation are therefore core issue to be address in cognitive robotics . cognitive robotics view animal cognition a a starting point for the development of robotic information process a oppose to more traditional artificial intelligence technique . target robotic cognitive capability include perception process attention allocation anticipation planning complex motor coordination reason about other agent and perhaps even about their own mental state . robotic cognition embody the behavior of intelligent agent in the physical world or a virtual world in the case of simulated cognitive robotics . ultimately the robot must be able to act in the real world . a preliminary robot learn technique called motor babbling involves correlating pseudorandom complex motor movement by the robot with result visual andor auditory feedback such that the robot may begin to expect a pattern of sensory feedback give a pattern of motor output . desire sensory feedback may then be use to inform a motor control signal . this be thought to be analogous to how a baby learns to reach for object or learns to produce speech sound . for simple robot system where for instance inverse kinematics may feasibly be use to transform anticipated feedback desire motor result into motor output this step may be skip . once a robot can coordinate it motor to produce a desire result the technique of learn by imitation may be use . the robot monitor the performance of another agent and then the robot try to imitate that agent . it be often a challenge to transform imitation information from a complex scene into a desire motor result for the robot . note that imitation be a highlevel form of cognitive behavior and imitation is not necessarily require in a basic model of embodied animal cognition . a more complex learn approach be autonomous knowledge acquisition the robot is leave to explore the environment on it own . a system of goal and belief is typically assume . a somewhat more directed mode of exploration can be achieve by curiosity algorithm such a intelligent adaptive curiosity or categorybased intrinsic motivation . these algorithm generally involve breaking sensory input into a finite number of category and assign some sort of prediction system such a an artificial neural network to each . the prediction system keep track of the error in it prediction over time . reduction in prediction error is consider learn . the robot then preferentially explore category in which it is learn or reduce prediction error the fastest . some researcher in cognitive robotics have try use architecture such a actr and soar cognitive architecture a a basis of their cognitive robotics program . these highly modular symbolprocessing architecture have be use to simulate operator performance and human performance when model simplistic and symbolize laboratory data . the idea be to extend these architecture to handle realworld sensory input a that input continuously unfolds through time . what is need be a way to somehow translate the world into a set of symbol and their relationship . drone or subatomic ai be some of the most controversial and greatest representation of sentient robotics and their processing or what the common people refer and believe in as quantum compute or plutonic a . not to be confused with platonic a . use string theory or mass sentient sentient mass relativity to conduct a universal occlusion call schripp or string theory using schripp for the general process and purpose of create a . or icb metric drone us quantum relativity between two unit to synchronize and assimilate a wavelength to cause universal fractal hyper conclusion and create an icb geometric manifold and conclude computing singularity unit hypothetically for unit to quantum compute icb metric number and code computer use a conjunction of high pitch am frequency to randomize photogenic relay combine with a high axis accelerometer with the implementation and use of quantum source code and with inductive relay for reason skill that be very close to the geometric decision base system that the human race use for evolution inclusively space time to manifold and icb metric singularity are generally hear in a frequency that be beyond the range of human hearingsome of the fundamental question to still be answer in cognitive robotics arecognitive robotics book by hooman samani take a multidiciplinary approach to cover various aspect of cognitive robotics such a artificial intelligence physical chemical philosophical psychological social cultural and ethical aspect .