multilinear principal component analysis mpca be a multilinear extension of principal component analysis pca . mpca is employ in the analysis of nway array i . a cube or hypercube of number also informally refer to a a data tensor . nway array may be decompose analyze or model by . the origin of mpca can be trace back to the tucker decomposition and peter kroonenbergs mmode pcamode pca work . in de lathauwer et al . restate tucker and kroonenbergs work in clear and concise numerical computational term in their siam paper entitled multilinear singular value decomposition hosvd and in their paper on the best rank and rankr r . r approximation of higherorder tensor . circa vasilescu reframed the data analysis recognition and synthesis problem a multilinear tensor problem base on the insight that most observe data be the compositional consequence of several causal factor of data formation and are well suit for multimodal data tensor analysis . the power of the tensor framework wa showcased by analyze human motion joint angle facial image or texture in term of their causal factor of data formation in the follow work human motion signature . cvpr icpr face recognition tensorfaces . eccv cvpr etc . and computer graphic tensortextures siggraph . historically mpca ha been refer to a mmode pca a terminology which wa coin by peter kroonenberg in . in vasilescu and terzopoulos introduce the multilinear pca terminology a a way to better differentiate between linear and multilinear tensor decomposition as well a to better differentiate between the work that compute nd order statistic associate with each data tensor modeaxis and subsequent work on multilinear independent component analysis that compute high order statistic associate with each tensor modeaxis . multilinear pca may be apply to compute the causal factor of data formation or a signal processing tool on data tensor whose individual observation have either been vectorized or whose observation are treat a matrix and concatenate into a data tensor . mpca compute a set of orthonormal matrix associate with each mode of the data tensor which be analogous to the orthonormal row and column space of a matrix compute by the matrix svd . this transformation aim to capture a high a variance a possible accounting for as much of the variability in the data associate with each data tensor modeaxis . the mpca solution follow the alternating least square al approach . it be iterative in nature . a in pca mpca work on centered data . center be a little more complicate for tensor and it be problem dependent . mpca feature supervise mpca feature selection is use in object recognition while unsupervised mpca feature selection be employ in visualization task . various extension of mpca have been develop .