multilinear subspace learning be an approach to dimensionality reduction . dimensionality reduction can be perform on a data tensor whose observation have been vectorized and organize into a data tensor or whose observation be matrix that are concatenate into a data tensor . here be some example of data tensor whose observation are vectorized or whose observation are matrix concatenate into data tensor image dd video sequence dd and hyperspectral cube dd . the map from a highdimensional vector space to a set of low dimensional vector space be a multilinear projection . multilinear subspace learn algorithm be higherorder generalization of linear subspace learn method such a principal component analysis pca independent component analysis ica linear discriminant analysis lda and canonical correlation analysis cca . with the advance in data acquisition and storage technology big data or massive data set are being generate on a daily basis in a wide range of emerge application . most of these big data be multidimensional . moreover they be usually veryhighdimensional with a large amount of redundancy and only occupy a part of the input space . therefore dimensionality reduction be frequently employed to map highdimensional data to a lowdimensional space while retaining a much information a possible . linear subspace learn algorithm be traditional dimensionality reduction technique that represent input data a vector and solve for an optimal linear mapping to a lowerdimensional space . unfortunately they often become inadequate when deal with massive multidimensional data . they result in veryhighdimensional vector lead to the estimation of a large number of parameter . multilinear subspace learn employ different type of data tensor analysis tool for dimensionality reduction . multilinear subspace learning can be apply to observation whose measurement were vectorized and organize into a data tensor or whose measurement are treat a a matrix and concatenate into a tensor . historically multilinear principal component analysis ha been refer to a mmode pca a terminology which wa coin by peter kroonenberg . in vasilescu and terzopoulos introduce the multilinear pca terminology a a way to better differentiate between linear tensor decomposition and multilinear tensor decomposition as well a to good differentiate between analysis approach that compute nd order statistic associate with each data tensor modeaxiss and subsequent work on multilinear independent component analysis that compute high order statistic associate with each tensor modeaxis . mpca be an extension of pca . multilinear independent component analysis be an extension of ica . there be n set of parameter to be solve one in each mode . the solution to one set often depends on the other set except when n the linear case . therefore the suboptimal iterative procedure in is follow . this is originate from the alternating least square method for multiway data analysis . the advantage of msl over traditional linear subspace model in common domain where the representation be naturally somewhat tensorial be . however msl algorithm be iterative and are not guarantee to converge where an msl algorithm doe converge it may do so at a local optimum . in contrast traditional linear subspace modeling technique often produce an exact closedform solution . msl convergence problem can often be mitigate by choose an appropriate subspace dimensionality and by appropriate strategy for initialization for termination and for choose the order in which projection are solve .