preference learning be a subfield in machine learn in which the goal be to learn a predictive preference model from observe preference information . in the view of supervise learn preference learn train on a set of item which have preference toward label or other item and predicts the preference for all item . while the concept of preference learn ha been emerge for some time in many field such a economics it a relatively new topic in artificial intelligence research . several workshop have been discuss preference learn and relate topic in the past decade . the main task in preference learn concern problem in learn to rank . accord to different type of preference information observe the task are categorize a three main problem in the book preference learn . in label rank the model have an instance space formula and a finite set of label formula . the preference information is give in the form formula indicate instance formula show preference in formula rather than formula . a set of preference information is use a train data in the model . the task of this model be to find a preference ranking among the label for any instance . it wa observe some conventional classification problem can be generalize in the framework of label rank problem if a training instance formula be labeled a class formula it imply that formula . in the multilabel case formula is associate with a set of label formula and thus the model can extract a set of preference information formula . train a preference model on this preference information and the classification result of an instance be just the correspond top rank label . instance rank also have the instance space formula and label set formula . in this task label are define to have a fix order formula and each instance formula is associate with a label formula . give a set of instance a train data the goal of this task be to find the ranking order for a new set of instance . object ranking be similar to instance rank except that no label are associate with instance . give a set of pairwise preference information in the form formula and the model should find out a ranking order among instance . there be two practical representation of the preference information formula . one is assign formula and formula with two real number formula and formula respectively such that formula . another one is assign a binary value formula for all pair formula denote whether formula or formula . correspond to these two different representation there be two different technique apply to the learn process . if we can find a map from data to real number rank the data can be solve by rank the real number . this mapping is call utility function . for label rank the mapping be a function formula such that formula . for instance rank and object rank the mapping be a function formula . find the utility function be a regression learn problem which is well develop in machine learn . the binary representation of preference information be call preference relation . for each pair of alternative instance or label a binary predicate can be learn by conventional supervising learn approach . frnkranz and hllermeier propose this approach in label rank problem . for object rank there be an early approach by cohen et al . use preference relation to predict the ranking will not be so intuitive . since preference relation is not transitive it imply that the solution of rank satisfy those relation would sometimes be unreachable or there could be more than one solution . a more common approach be to find a ranking solution which be maximally consistent with the preference relation . this approach be a natural extension of pairwise classification . preference learn can be use in rank search result accord to feedback of user preference . give a query and a set of document a learn model is use to find the ranking of document correspond to the relevance with this query . more discussion on research in this field can be find in tieyan lius survey paper . another application of preference learning be recommender system . online store may analyze customer purchase record to learn a preference model and then recommend similar product to customer . internet content provider can make use of user rating to provide more user preferred content .