in computer science and operation research a genetic algorithm ga be a metaheuristic inspire by the process of natural selection that belong to the large class of evolutionary algorithm ea . genetic algorithm are commonly use to generate highquality solution to optimization and search problem by rely on bioinspired operator such a mutation crossover and selection . in a genetic algorithm a population of candidate solution call individuals creature or phenotype to an optimization problem is evolve toward good solution . each candidate solution have a set of property it chromosome or genotype which can be mutate and alter traditionally solution are represent in binary a string of s and s but other encoding be also possible . the evolution usually start from a population of randomly generate individual and be an iterative process with the population in each iteration call a generation . in each generation the fitness of every individual in the population is evaluate the fitness be usually the value of the objective function in the optimization problem being solve . the more fit individual are stochastically select from the current population and each individual genome is modify recombine and possibly randomly mutate to form a new generation . the new generation of candidate solution is then use in the next iteration of the algorithm . commonly the algorithm terminates when either a maximum number of generation ha been produce or a satisfactory fitness level ha been reach for the population . a typical genetic algorithm requiresa standard representation of each candidate solution be a an array of bit . array of other type and structure can be use in essentially the same way . the main property that make these genetic representation convenient be that their part are easily align due to their fix size which facilitate simple crossover operation . variable length representation may also be use but crossover implementation be more complex in this case . treelike representation are explore in genetic programming and graphform representation are explore in evolutionary programming a mix of both linear chromosome and tree be explored in gene expression programming . once the genetic representation and the fitness function are define a ga proceeds to initialize a population of solution and then to improve it through repetitive application of the mutation crossover inversion and selection operator . the population size depend on the nature of the problem but typically contains several hundred or thousand of possible solution . often the initial population is generate randomly allow the entire range of possible solution the search space . occasionally the solution may be seed in area where optimal solution be likely to be find . during each successive generation a portion of the existing population is select to breed a new generation . individual solution are select through a fitnessbased process where fitter solution a measure by a fitness function be typically more likely to be select . certain selection method rate the fitness of each solution and preferentially select the best solution . other method rate only a random sample of the population a the former process may be very timeconsuming . the fitness function is define over the genetic representation and measure the quality of the represented solution . the fitness function be always problem dependent . for instance in the knapsack problem one want to maximize the total value of object that can be put in a knapsack of some fixed capacity . a representation of a solution might be an array of bit where each bit represent a different object and the value of the bit or represents whether or not the object be in the knapsack . not every such representation be valid a the size of object may exceed the capacity of the knapsack . the fitness of the solution be the sum of value of all object in the knapsack if the representation be valid or otherwise . in some problem it be hard or even impossible to define the fitness expression in these case a simulation may be use to determine the fitness function value of a phenotype e . computational fluid dynamic is use to determine the air resistance of a vehicle whose shape is encode a the phenotype or even interactive genetic algorithm are use . the next step be to generate a second generation population of solution from those select through a combination of genetic operator crossover also call recombination and mutation . for each new solution to be produce a pair of parent solution is select for breed from the pool select previously . by produce a child solution use the above method of crossover and mutation a new solution is create which typically share many of the characteristic of it parent . new parent are select for each new child and the process continue until a new population of solution of appropriate size is generate . although reproduction method that are base on the use of two parent be more biology inspire some research suggests that more than two parent generate high quality chromosome . these process ultimately result in the next generation population of chromosome that be different from the initial generation . generally the average fitness will have increase by this procedure for the population since only the best organism from the first generation are select for breed along with a small proportion of less fit solution . these less fit solution ensure genetic diversity within the genetic pool of the parent and therefore ensure the genetic diversity of the subsequent generation of child . opinion is divide over the importance of crossover versus mutation . there be many reference in fogel that support the importance of mutationbased search . although crossover and mutation are know a the main genetic operator it be possible to use other operator such a regrouping colonizationextinction or migration in genetic algorithm . it be worth tuning parameter such a the mutation probability crossover probability and population size to find reasonable setting for the problem class being work on . a very small mutation rate may lead to genetic drift which be nonergodic in nature . a recombination rate that be too high may lead to premature convergence of the genetic algorithm . a mutation rate that be too high may lead to loss of good solution unless elitist selection is employ . in addition to the main operator above other heuristic may be employ to make the calculation faster or more robust . the speciation heuristic penalizes crossover between candidate solution that be too similar this encourages population diversity and help prevent premature convergence to a le optimal solution . this generational process is repeat until a termination condition ha been reach . common terminating condition aregenetic algorithm be simple to implement but their behavior be difficult to understand . in particular it be difficult to understand why these algorithm frequently succeed at generating solution of high fitness when apply to practical problem . the building block hypothesis bbh consists ofgoldberg describe the heuristic a followsdespite the lack of consensus regard the validity of the buildingblock hypothesis it ha been consistently evaluate and use a reference throughout the year . many estimation of distribution algorithm for example have been propose in an attempt to provide an environment in which the hypothesis would hold . although good result have been report for some class of problem skepticism concern the generality andor practicality of the buildingblock hypothesis a an explanation for gas efficiency still remain . indeed there be a reasonable amount of work that attempt to understand it limitation from the perspective of estimation of distribution algorithm . there be limitation of the use of a genetic algorithm compare to alternative optimization algorithmsthe simple algorithm represents each chromosome a a bit string . typically numeric parameter can be represent by integer though it be possible to use floating point representation . the floating point representation be natural to evolution strategy and evolutionary programming . the notion of realvalued genetic algorithm ha been offer but be really a misnomer because it doe not really represent the building block theory that wa propose by john henry holland in the s . this theory be not without support though base on theoretical and experimental result see below . the basic algorithm performs crossover and mutation at the bit level . other variant treat the chromosome a a list of number which be index into an instruction table node in a linked list hash object or any other imaginable data structure . crossover and mutation are perform so a to respect data element boundary . for most data type specific variation operator can be design . different chromosomal data type seem to work good or bad for different specific problem domain . when bitstring representation of integer are use gray coding is often employ . in this way small change in the integer can be readily affect through mutation or crossover . this ha been find to help prevent premature convergence at so call hamming wall in which too many simultaneous mutation or crossover event must occur in order to change the chromosome to a good solution . other approach involve use array of realvalued number instead of bit string to represent chromosome . result from the theory of schema suggest that in general the small the alphabet the well the performance but it be initially surprising to researcher that good result were obtain from use realvalued chromosome . this wa explain a the set of real value in a finite population of chromosome a form a virtual alphabet when selection and recombination are dominant with a much low cardinality than would be expect from a floating point representation . an expansion of the genetic algorithm accessible problem domain can be obtain through more complex encoding of the solution pool by concatenate several type of heterogenously encode gene into one chromosome . this particular approach allows for solving optimization problem that require vastly disparate definition domain for the problem parameter . for instance in problem of cascade controller tune the internal loop controller structure can belong to a conventional regulator of three parameter whereas the external loop could implement a linguistic controller such a a fuzzy system which have an inherently different description . this particular form of encode requires a specialize crossover mechanism that recombine the chromosome by section and it be a useful tool for the modelling and simulation of complex adaptive system especially evolution process . a practical variant of the general process of construct a new population be to allow the best organism from the current generation to carry over to the next unaltered . this strategy is know a elitist selection and guarantee that the solution quality obtain by the ga will not decrease from one generation to the next . parallel implementation of genetic algorithm come in two flavor . coarsegrained parallel genetic algorithm assume a population on each of the computer node and migration of individual among the node . finegrained parallel genetic algorithm assume an individual on each processor node which act with neighbor individual for selection and reproduction . other variant like genetic algorithm for online optimization problem introduce timedependence or noise in the fitness function . genetic algorithm with adaptive parameter adaptive genetic algorithm aga be another significant and promise variant of genetic algorithm . the probability of crossover pc and mutation pm greatly determine the degree of solution accuracy and the convergence speed that genetic algorithm can obtain . instead of use fix value of pc and pm agas utilize the population information in each generation and adaptively adjust the pc and pm in order to maintain the population diversity as well a to sustain the convergence capacity . in aga adaptive genetic algorithm the adjustment of pc and pm depends on the fitness value of the solution . in caga clusteringbased adaptive genetic algorithm through the use of cluster analysis to judge the optimization state of the population the adjustment of pc and pm depends on these optimization state . it can be quite effective to combine ga with other optimization method . ga tend to be quite good at find generally good global solution but quite inefficient at find the last few mutation to find the absolute optimum . other technique such a simple hill climb are quite efficient at find absolute optimum in a limited region . alternate ga and hill climbing can improve the efficiency of ga while overcome the lack of robustness of hill climbing . this mean that the rule of genetic variation may have a different meaning in the natural case . for instance provide that step are store in consecutive order crossing over may sum a number of step from maternal dna add a number of step from paternal dna and so on . this be like add vector that more probably may follow a ridge in the phenotypic landscape . thus the efficiency of the process may be increase by many order of magnitude . moreover the inversion operator have the opportunity to place step in consecutive order or any other suitable order in favour of survival or efficiency . a variation where the population a a whole is evolve rather than it individual member be known a gene pool recombination . a number of variation have be developed to attempt to improve performance of gas on problem with a high degree of fitness epistasis i . where the fitness of a solution consists of interact subset of it variable . such algorithm aim to learn before exploit these beneficial phenotypic interaction . a such they are align with the building block hypothesis in adaptively reduce disruptive recombination . prominent example of this approach include the mga gemga and llga . problem which appear to be particularly appropriate for solution by genetic algorithm include timetabling and scheduling problem and many scheduling software package are base on gas . gas have also been apply to engineer . genetic algorithm are often apply a an approach to solve global optimization problem . a a general rule of thumb genetic algorithm might be useful in problem domain that have a complex fitness landscape a mix i . mutation in combination with crossover is design to move the population away from local optimum that a traditional hill climbing algorithm might get stuck in . observe that commonly use crossover operator cannot change any uniform population . mutation alone can provide ergodicity of the overall genetic algorithm process see a a markov chain . example of problem solve by genetic algorithm include mirror design to funnel sunlight to a solar collector antenna design to pick up radio signal in space and walk method for computer figure . in his algorithm design manual skiena advise against genetic algorithm for any taskin alan turing propose a learning machine which would parallel the principle of evolution . computer simulation of evolution start a early a in with the work of nil aall barricelli who wa use the computer at the institute for advanced study in princeton new jersey . his publication be not widely noticed . start in the australian quantitative geneticist alex fraser publish a series of paper on simulation of artificial selection of organism with multiple locus control a measurable trait . from these beginning computer simulation of evolution by biologist became more common in the early s and the method were describe in book by fraser and burnell and crosby . frasers simulation include all of the essential element of modern genetic algorithm . in addition hansjoachim bremermann publish a series of paper in the s that also adopt a population of solution to optimization problem undergo recombination mutation and selection . bremermanns research also include the element of modern genetic algorithm . other noteworthy early pioneer include richard friedberg george friedman and michael conrad . many early paper are reprint by fogel . although barricelli in work he report in have simulated the evolution of ability to play a simple game artificial evolution become a widely recognize optimization method a a result of the work of ingo rechenberg and hanspaul schwefel in the s and early s rechenbergs group be able to solve complex engineering problem through evolution strategy . another approach be the evolutionary programming technique of lawrence j . fogel which wa propose for generate artificial intelligence . evolutionary programming originally use finite state machine for predicting environment and use variation and selection to optimize the predictive logic . genetic algorithm in particular became popular through the work of john holland in the early s and particularly his book adaptation in natural and artificial system . his work originate with study of cellular automaton conduct by holland and his student at the university of michigan . holland introduce a formalize framework for predict the quality of the next generation known a holland schema theorem . research in gas remain largely theoretical until the mids when the first international conference on genetic algorithm wa hold in pittsburgh pennsylvania . in the late s general electric start sell the world first genetic algorithm product a mainframebased toolkit design for industrial process . in axcelis inc . release evolver the world first commercial ga product for desktop computer . the new york time technology writer john markoff write about evolver in and it remain the only interactive commercial genetic algorithm until . evolver be sold to palisade in translate into several language and be currently in it th version . genetic algorithm be a subfield ofevolutionary algorithm be a subfield of evolutionary computing . swarm intelligence be a subfield of evolutionary computing . evolutionary computation be a subfield of the metaheuristic method . metaheuristic method broadly fall within stochastic optimisation method .