statistical learning theory be a framework for machine learningdrawing from the field of statistic and functional analysis . statistical learn theory deal with the problem of find a predictive function base on data . statistical learning theory ha lead to successful application in field such a computer vision speech recognition bioinformatics and baseball . the goal of learn are understand and prediction . learn fall into many category including supervised learning unsupervised learn online learning and reinforcement learn . from the perspective of statistical learning theory supervised learning be best understood . supervise learn involves learn from a training set of data . every point in the training be an inputoutput pair where the input map to an output . the learn problem consists of infer the function that map between the input and the output such that the learned function can be use to predict output from future input . depend on the type of output supervised learn problem be either problem of regression or problem of classification . if the output take a continuous range of value it be a regression problem . use ohms law a an example a regression could be perform with voltage a input and current a output . the regression would find the functional relationship between voltage and current to be such thatclassification problem be those for which the output will be an element from a discrete set of label . classification be very common for machine learn application . in facial recognition for instance a picture of a person face would be the input and the output label would be that person name . the input would be represent by a large multidimensional vector whose element represent pixel in the picture . after learn a function base on the training set data that function is validate on a test set of data data that did not appear in the training set . take formula to be the vector space of all possible input and formula to bethe vector space of all possible output . statistical learning theory take the perspective that there be some unknown probability distribution over the product space formula i . there exist some unknown formula . the training set is make up of formula sample from this probability distribution and is notate every formula be an input vector from the training data and formulais the output that correspond to it . in this formalism the inference problem consists of find a function formula such that formula . let formula be a space of function formula call the hypothesis space . the hypothesis space be the space of function the algorithm will search through . let formula be the loss function a metric for the difference between the predict value formula and the actual value formula . the expected risk is define to bethe target function the best possible function formula that can bechosen is give by the formula that satisfiesbecause the probability distribution formula be unknown aproxy measure for the expected risk must be use . this measure is base on the training set a sample from this unknown probability distribution . it is call the empirical riska learn algorithm that choose the function formula that minimizesthe empirical risk be call empirical risk minimization . the choice of loss function be a determining factor on the function formula that will be choose by the learn algorithm . the loss functionalso affect the convergence rate for an algorithm . it be important for the loss function to be convex . different loss function are use depend on whether the problem isone of regression or one of classification . the most common loss function for regression be the square loss function also know a the lnorm . this familiar loss function is use in ordinary least square regression . the form isthe absolute value loss also known a the lnorm be also sometimes usedin some sense the indicator function be the most natural loss function for classification . it take the value if the predict output be the same a the actual output and it take the value if the predict output be different from the actual output . for binary classification with formula this iswhere formula be the heaviside step function . in machine learn problem a major problem that arise be that of overfitting . because learn be a prediction problem the goal be not to find a function that most closely fit the previously observe data but to find one that will most accurately predict output from future input . empirical risk minimization run this risk of overfitting find a function that match the data exactly but doe not predict future output well . overfitting be symptomatic of unstable solution a small perturbation in the training set data would cause a large variation in the learn function . it can be show that if the stability for the solution can be guarantee generalization and consistency are guarantee as well . regularization can solve the overfitting problem and givethe problem stability . regularization can be accomplish by restrict the hypothesis space formula . a common example would be restrict formula to linear function this can be see a a reduction to the standard problem of linear regression . formula could also be restricted to polynomial of degree formula exponential or bound function on l . restriction of the hypothesis space avoid overfitting because the form of the potential function are limit and so doe not allow for the choice of a function that give empirical risk arbitrarily close to zero . one example of regularization be tikhonov regularization . this consists of minimizingwhere formula be a fix and positive parameter the regularization parameter . tikhonov regularization ensures existence uniqueness and stability of the solution .