in the regulation of algorithms particularly artificial intelligence and it subfield of machine learn a right to explanation or right to an explanation be a right to be give an explanation for an output of the algorithm . such right primarily refer to individual right to be give an explanation for decision that significantly affect an individual particularly legally or financially . for example a person who apply for a loan and is deny may ask for an explanation which could be credit bureau x report that you declare bankruptcy last year this be the main factor in consider you too likely to default and thus we will not give you the loan you apply for . some such legal right already exist while the scope of a general right to explanation be a matter of ongoing debate . credit score in the united state more generally credit action have a wellestablished right to explanation . under the equal credit opportunity act regulation b of the code of federal regulation . title chapter x part . creditor are require to notify applicant of action take in certain circumstance and such notification must provide specific reason a detail in . the official interpretation of this section detail what type of statement be acceptable . credit agency and data analysis firm such a fico comply with this regulation by provide a list of reason generally at most per interpretation of regulation consist of a numeric a identifier and an associate explanation identify the main factor affect a credit score . an example might be . the european union general data protection regulation enact take effect extend the automated decisionmaking right in the data protection directive to provide a legally dispute form of a right to an explanation state a such in recital the data subject should have the right . to obtain an explanation of the decision reach . in full . however the extent to which the regulation themselves provide a right to explanation be heavily debated . there be two main strand of criticism . there be significant legal issue with the right as find in article a recital are not bind and the right to an explanation is not mention in the binding article of the text have been remove during the legislative process . in addition there be significant restriction on the type of automated decision that are cover which must be both solely base on automated processing and have legal or similarly significant effect which limit their applicability in many of the case of algorithmic controversy that have been pick up in the medium . a second source of such a right ha been point to in article the right of access by the data subject . this restate a similar provision from the data protection directive allow the data subject access to meaningful information about the logic involved in the same significant solely automate decisionmaking found in article . yet this too suffers from alleged challenge that relate to the timing of when this right can be draw upon as well a practical challenge that mean it may not be bind in many case of public concern . in france the loi pour une rpublique numrique digital republic act or loi numrique amends the country administrative code to introduce a new provision for the explanation of decision make by public sector body about individual . it note that where there be a decision take on the basis of an algorithmic treatment the rule that define that treatment and it principal characteristic must be communicate to the citizen upon request where there be not an exclusion e . for national security or defence . these should include the follow . scholar have note that this right while limit to administrative decision go beyond the gdpr right to explicitly apply to decision support rather than decision solely base on automated process as well a provide a framework for explain specific decision . indeed the gdpr automate decisionmaking right in the european union one of the place a right to an explanation ha be seek within find their origin in french law in the late s . some argue that a right to explanation be at best unnecessary at worst harmful and threatens to stifle innovation . specific criticism include favoring human decision over machine decision being redundant with exist law and focus on process over outcome . more fundamentally many algorithm use in machine learn be not easily explainable . for example the output of a deep neural network depends on many layer of computation connect in a complex way and no one input or computation may be a dominant factor . the field of explainable ai seek to provide good explanation from exist algorithm and algorithm that be more easily explainable but it be a young and active field . similarly human decision often cannot be easily explain they may be base on intuition or a gut feeling that be hard to put into word . require machine to meet a high standard than human be thus arguably unreasonable .