robot learn be a research field at the intersection of machine learn and robotics . it study technique allow a robot to acquire novel skill or adapt to it environment through learn algorithm . the embodiment of the robot situate in a physical embedding provides at the same time specific difficulty e . highdimensionality real time constraint for collect data and learn and opportunity for guide the learning process e . sensorimotor synergy motor primitive . example of skill that are target by learn algorithm include sensorimotor skill such a locomotion grasping active object categorization as well a interactive skill such a joint manipulation of an object with a human peer and linguistic skill such a the grounded and situated meaning of human language . learn can happen either through autonomous selfexploration or through guidance from a human teacher like for example in robot learn by imitation . robot learn can be closely relate to adaptive control reinforcement learning as well a developmental robotics which consider the problem of autonomous lifelong acquisition of repertoire of skill . while machine learning is frequently use by computer vision algorithm employ in the context of robotics these application are usually not refer to a robot learn . maya cakmak assistant professor of computer science and engineer at the university of washington is try to create a robot that learns by imitate a technique called programming by demonstration . a researcher show it a cleaning technique for the robots vision system and it generalize the clean motion from the human demonstration as well a identify the state of dirt before and after cleaning . similarly the baxter industrial robot can be teach how to do something by grab it arm and show it the desired movement . it can also use deep learn to teach itself to grasp an unknown object . in telexs million object challenge the goal be robot that learn how to spot and handle simple item and upload their data to the cloud to allow other robot to analyze and use the information . robobrain be a knowledge engine for robot which can be freely access by any device wishing to carry out a task . the database gather new information about task a robots perform them by search the internet interpreting natural language text image and video object recognition as well a interaction . the project is lead by ashutosh saxena at stanford university . roboearth be a project that ha be describe a a world wide web for robot it be a network and database repository where robot can share information and learn from each other and a cloud for outsource heavy computation task . the project brings together researcher from five major university in germany the netherlands and spain and is back by the european union . google research deepmind and google x have decide to allow their robot share their experience .