semantic folding theory describe a procedure for encode the semantics of natural language text in a semantically ground binary representation . this approach provide a framework for model how language data is process by the neocortex . semantic folding theory draw inspiration from douglas r . hofstadters analogy a the core of cognition which suggest that the brain make sense of the world by identifying and apply analogy . the theory hypothesise that semantic data must therefore be introduce to the neocortex in such a form a to allow the application of a similarity measure and offer a a solution the sparse binary vector employ a twodimensional topographic semantic space a a distributional reference frame . the theory build on the computational theory of the human cortex known a hierarchical temporal memory htm and position itself a a complementary theory for the representation of language semantics . a particular strength claim by this approach be that the resulting binary representation enables complex semantic operation to be perform simply and efficiently at the most basic computational level . analogous to the structure of the neocortex semantic folding theory posit the implementation of a semantic space a a twodimensional grid . this grid is populate by contextvectors in such a way a to place similar contextvectors closer to each other for instance by use competitive learning principle . this vector space model be present in the theory a an equivalence to the well know word space model describe in the information retrieval literature . give a semantic space implement a describe above a wordvector can be obtain for any give word y by employ the follow algorithm . for each position x in the semantic map where x represent cartesian coordinate . the result of this process will be a wordvector contain all the context in which the word y appears and will therefore be representative of the semantics of that word in the semantic space . it can be see that the resulting wordvector be also in a sparse distributed representation sdr format schtze sahlgreen . some property of wordsdrs that be of particular interest with respect to computational semantics be . semantic space in the natural language domain aim to create representation of natural language that be capable of capture meaning . the original motivation for semantic space stem from two core challenge of natural language vocabulary mismatch the fact that the same meaning can be express in many way and ambiguity of natural language the fact that the same term can have several meaning . the application of semantic space in natural language process nlp aim at overcome limitation of rulebased or modelbased approach operating on the keyword level . the main drawback with these approach be their brittleness and the large manual effort require to create either rulebased nlp system or training corpus for model learn . rulebased and machine learn based model are fix on the keyword level and break down if the vocabulary differs from that define in the rule or from the training material use for the statistical model . research in semantic space date back more than year . in two paper were publish that raise a lot of attention around the general idea of create semantic space latent semantic analysis from microsoft and hyperspace analogue to language from the university of california . however their adoption wa limit by the large computational effort require to construct and use those semantic space . a breakthrough with regard to the accuracy of model associative relation between word e . spiderweb lightercigarette a oppose to synonymous relation such a whaledolphin astronautdriver wa achieve by explicit semantic analysis esa in . esa be a novel nonmachine learning base approach that represented word in the form of vector with dimension where each dimension represent an article in wikipedia . however practical application of the approach are limit due to the large number of require dimension in the vector . more recently advance in neural networking technique in combination with other new approach tensor lead to a host of new recent development wordvec from google and glove from stanford university . semantic folding represent a novel biologically inspire approach to semantic space where each word be represented a a sparse binary vector with dimension a semantic fingerprint in a d semantic map the semantic universe . sparse binary representation be advantageous in term of computational efficiency and allow for the storage of very large number of possible pattern . the topological distribution over a twodimensional grid outline above lend itself to a bitmap type visualization of the semantics of any word or text where each active semantic feature can be display a e . a pixel . a can be see in the image shown here this representation allow for a direct visual comparison of the semantics of two or more linguistic item . image clearly demonstrates that the two disparate term dog and car have a expect very obviously different semantics . image show that only one of the meaning context of jaguar that of jaguar the car overlaps with the meaning of porsche indicate partial similarity . other meaning context of jaguar e . jaguar the animal clearly have different nonoverlapping context . note also that the visualization of semantic similarity use semantic folding bear a strong resemblance to the fmri image produce in a research study conduct by a . huth et al . where it is claim that word are group in the brain by meaning .