similarity learning be an area of supervise machine learn in artificial intelligence . it be closely related to regression and classification but the goal be to learn from example a similarity function that measure how similar or relate two object be . it have application in rank in recommendation system visual identity track face verification and speaker verification . there be four common setup for similarity and metric distance learn . a common approach for learn similarity be to model the similarity function a a bilinear form . for example in the case of rank similarity learn one aim to learn a matrix w that parametrizes the similarity function formula . similarity learning is closely relate to distance metric learn . metric learning be the task of learn a distance function over object . a metric or distance function have to obey four axioms nonnegativity identity of indiscernibles symmetry and subadditivity triangle inequality . in practice metric learn algorithm ignore the condition of identity of indiscernibles and learn a pseudometric . when the object formula be vector in formula then any matrix formula in the symmetric positive semidefinite cone formula define a distance pseudometric of the space of x through the form formula . when formula be a symmetric positive definite matrix formula be a metric . moreover a any symmetric positive semidefinite matrix formula can be decompose a formula where formula and formula the distance function formula can be rewrite equivalently formula . the distance formula corresponds to the euclidean distance between the project feature vectors formula and formula . some wellknown approach for metric learning include large margin nearest neighbor information theoretic metric learn itml . in statistic the covariance matrix of the data be sometimes used to define a distance metric call mahalanobis distance . similarity learning is use in information retrieval for learn to rank in face verification or face identification and in recommendation system . also many machine learn approach rely on some metric . this includes unsupervised learn such a cluster which group together close or similar object . it also include supervise approach like knearest neighbor algorithm which rely on label of nearby object to decide on the label of a new object . metric learning ha been propose a a preprocessing step for many of these approach metric and similarity learn naively scale quadratically with the dimension of the input space a can easily see when the learn metric have a bilinear form formula . scale to high dimension can be achieve by enforce a sparseness structure over the matrix model a do with hdsl and with comet . for further information on this topic see the survey on metric and similarity learn by bellet et al . and kulis . a general framework for metric learning ha been propose by huang et al .