spikeandslab regression be a bayesian variable selection technique that be particularly useful when the number of possible predictor be large than the number of observation . initially the idea of the spikeandslab model wa propose by mitchell beauchamp . the approach wa far significantly develop by madigan raftery and george mcculloch . the final adjustment to the model were do by ishwaran rao . suppose we have p possible predictor in some model . vector have a length equal to p and consists of zero and one . this vector indicate whether a particular variable is include in the regression or not . if no specific prior information on initial inclusion probability of particular variable be available a bernoulli prior distribution be a common default choice . conditional on a predictor being in the regression we identify a prior distribution for the model coefficient which correspond to that variable . a common choice on that step be to use a normal prior with mean equal to zero and a large variance calculate based on formula where formula be a design matrix of explanatory variable of the model . a draw of from it prior distribution be a list of the variable include in the regression . conditional on this set of select variable we take a draw from the prior distribution of the regression coefficient if then and if then . denote the subset of for which . in the next step we calculate a posterior probability distribution for both inclusion and coefficient by apply a standard statistical procedure . all step of the described algorithm are repeat thousand of time use markov chain monte carlo mcmc technique . a a result we obtain a posterior distribution of variable inclusion in the model regression coefficient value and the correspond prediction of y . the model get it name spikeandslab due to the shape of the two prior distribution . the spike be the probability of a particular coefficient in the model to be zero . the slab be the prior distribution for the regression coefficient value . an advantage of bayesian variable selection technique be that they be able to make use of prior knowledge about the model . in the absence of such knowledge some reasonable default value can be use for the analyst who prefer simplicity at the cost of some reasonable assumption useful prior information can be reduce to an expect model size an expect r and a sample size determine the weight give to the guess at r . some researcher suggest the follow default value r . and . parameter of a prior bernoulli distribution . a possible drawback of the spikeandslab model can be it mathematical complexity in comparison to linear regression . a deep understanding of this model require sound knowledge in stochastic process . on the other hand some modern statistical software e . r have readytouse solution for calculate various bayesian variable selection model . in this case it would be enough for a researcher to know the idea of the method require model parameter and input variable . the analysis of the model outcomes distribution of and correspond prediction of y can be more challenging in comparison to linear regression case . the spikeandslab model produce inclusion probability for each of possible predictor . this can cause difficulty when compare result to the study with simple regression usually only regression coefficient with correspond statistic be available . spikeandslab regression be a part of bayesian structural time series model which is use for feature selection time series forecasting nowcasting infer causation and other .