developmental robotics devrob sometimes call epigenetic robotics be a scientific field which aim at study the developmental mechanism architecture and constraint that allow lifelong and openended learning of new skill and new knowledge in embodied machine . a in human child learning is expect to be cumulative and of progressively increase complexity and to result from selfexploration of the world in combination with social interaction . the typical methodological approach consists in start from theory of human and animal development elaborate in field such a developmental psychology neuroscience developmental and evolutionary biology and linguistics then to formalize and implement them in robot sometimes explore extension or variant of them . the experimentation of those model in robots allows researcher to confront them with reality and a a consequence developmental robotics also provides feedback and novel hypothesis on theory of human and animal development . developmental robotics be related to but differs from evolutionary robotics er . er us population of robot that evolve over time whereas devrob is interest in how the organization of a single robot control system develop through experience over time . devrob be also related to work do in the domain of robotics and artificial life . can a robot learn like a child can it learn a variety of new skill and new knowledge unspecified at design time and in a partially unknown and change environment how can it discover it body and it relationship with the physical and social environment how can it cognitive capacity continuously develop without the intervention of an engineer once it be out of the factory what can it learn through natural social interaction with human these be the question at the center of developmental robotics . alan turing as well a a number of other pioneer of cybernetics already formulate those question and the general approach in but it be only since the end of the th century that they begin to be investigated systematically . because the concept of adaptive intelligent machine be central to developmental robotics it have relationship with field such a artificial intelligence machine learning cognitive robotics or computational neuroscience . yet while it may reuse some of the technique elaborate in these field it differ from them from many perspective . it differ from classical artificial intelligence because it doe not assume the capability of advance symbolic reasoning and focus on embodied and situate sensorimotor and social skill rather than on abstract symbolic problem . it differ from traditional machine learn because it target task independent selfdetermined learning rather than taskspecific inference over spoon feed humanedited sensori data weng et al . it differ from cognitive robotics because it focus on the process that allow the formation of cognitive capability rather than these capability themselves . it differ from computational neuroscience because it focus on functional modeling of integrate architecture of development and learn . more generally developmental robotics be uniquely characterize by the follow three featuresdevelopmental robotics emerge at the crossroad of several research community including embodied artificial intelligence enactive and dynamical system cognitive science connectionism . start from the essential idea that learn and development happen a the selforganized result of the dynamical interaction among brain body and their physical and social environment and try to understand how this self organization can be harness to provide taskindependent lifelong learn of skill of increase complexity developmental robotics strongly interacts with field such a developmental psychology developmental and cognitive neuroscience developmental biology embryology evolutionary biology and cognitive linguistics . as many of the theory come from these science be verbal andor descriptive this implies a crucial formalization and computational modeling activity in developmental robotics . these computational model are then not only use as ways to explore how to build more versatile and adaptive machine but also a a way to evaluate their coherence and possibly explore alternative explanation for understand biological development . due to the general approach and methodology developmental robotics project typically focus on have robot develop the same type of skill a human infant . a first category that is importantly being investigate be the acquisition of sensorimotor skill . these include the discovery of one own body include it structure and dynamics such a handeye coordination locomotion and interaction with object as well a tool use with a particular focus on the discovery and learn of affordances . a second category of skill target by developmental robot be social and linguistic skill the acquisition of simple social behavioural game such a turntaking coordinated interaction lexicon syntax and grammar and the grounding of these linguistic skill into sensorimotor skill sometimes refer a symbol ground . in parallel the acquisition of associate cognitive skill are being investigate such a the emergence of the selfnonself distinction the development of attentional capability of categorization system and higherlevel representation of affordances or social construct of the emergence of value empathy or theory of mind . the sensorimotor and social space in which human and robot live be so large and complex that only a small part of potentially learnable skill can actually be explore and learn within a lifetime . thus mechanism and constraint be necessary to guide developmental organism in their development and control of the growth of complexity . there be several important family of these guiding mechanism and constraint which are study in developmental robotics all inspire by human developmentwhile most developmental robotics project strongly interact with theory of animal and human development the degree of similarity and inspiration between identify biological mechanism and their counterpart in robot as well a the abstraction level of model may vary a lot . while some project aim at model precisely both the function and biological implementation neural or morphological model such a in neurorobotics some other project only focus on functional modeling of the mechanism and constraint describe above and might for example reuse in their architecture technique come from applied mathematics or engineer field . a developmental robotics be a relatively novel research field and at the same time very ambitious many fundamental open challenge remain to be solved . first of all existing technique be far from allow realworld highdimensional robot to learn an open end repertoire of increasingly complex skill over a lifetime period . highdimensional continuous sensorimotor space be a major obstacle to be solve . lifelong cumulative learning be another one . actually no experiment last more than a few day have been set up so far which contrast severely with the time period need by human infant to learn basic sensorimotor skill while equip with brain and morphology which be tremendously more powerful than exist computational mechanism . among the strategy to explore in order to progress towards this target the interaction between the mechanism and constraint describe in the previous section shall be investigate more systematically . indeed they have so far mainly been study in isolation . for example the interaction of intrinsically motivate learning and socially guide learning possibly constrain by maturation be an essential issue to be investigated . another important challenge be to allow robot to perceive interpret and leverage the diversity of multimodal social cue provide by nonengineer human during humanrobot interaction . these capacity be so far mostly too limit to allow efficient general purpose teaching from human . a fundamental scientific issue to be understood and resolve which apply equally to human development be how compositionality functional hierarchies primitive and modularity at all level of sensorimotor and social structure can be form and leverage during development . this is deeply link with the problem of the emergence of symbol sometimes refer a the symbol ground problem when it come to language acquisition . actually the very existence and need for symbol in the brain is actively question and alternative concept still allow for compositionality and functional hierarchy are be investigated . during biological epigenesis morphology is not fix but rather develops in constant interaction with the development of sensorimotor and social skill . the development of morphology pose obvious practical problem with robot but it may be a crucial mechanism that should be far explore at least in simulation such a in morphogenetic robotics . another open problem be the understanding of the relation between the key phenomenon investigate by developmental robotics e . hierarchical and modular sensorimotor system intrinsicextrinsicsocial motivation and openended learning and the underlie brain mechanism . similarly in biology developmental mechanism operate at the ontogenetic time scale strongly interact with evolutionary mechanism operate at the phylogenetic time scale a show in the flourishing evodevo scientific literature . however the interaction of those mechanism in artificial organism developmental robot in particular be still vastly understudy . the interaction of evolutionary mechanism unfolding morphology and develop sensorimotor and social skill will thus be a highly stimulating topic for the future of developmental robotics . the nsfdarpa fund workshop on development and learn wa hold april at michigan state university . it be the first international meeting devote to computational understanding of mental development by robot and animal . the term by wa use since the agent be active during development . the first undergraduate course in devrob were offer at bryn mawr college and swarthmore college in the spring of by douglas blank and lisa meeden respectively . the first graduate course in devrob wa offer at iowa state university by alexander stoytchev in the fall of .