in theoretical computer science a pattern language be a formal language that can be define a the set of all particular instance of a string of constant and variable . pattern language were introduce by dana angluin in the context of machine learn . give a finite set of constant symbol and a countable set x of variable symbol disjoint from a pattern be a finite nonempty string of symbol from x . the length of a pattern p denote by p be just the number of it symbol . the set of all pattern contain exactly n distinct variable each of which may occur several time is denote by p the set of all pattern at all by p . a substitution be a map f p p such thatif p fq for some pattern p q p and some substitution f then p is say to be less general than q write pqin that case necessarily p q hold . for a pattern p it language is define a the set of all less general pattern that be built from constant only formally lp s s p where denote the set of all finite nonempty string of symbol from . for example use the constant and the variable x x y z . the pattern xxx p and xxy p have length and respectively . an instance of the former pattern be zzz and zzz it is obtain by the substitution that map x to z and to z respectively and each other symbol to itself . both zzz and zzz be also instance of xxy . in fact lxxx be a subset of lxxy . the language of the pattern x and x be the set of all bit string which denote an even and odd binary number respectively . the language of xx be the set of all string obtainable by concatenate a bit string with itself e . lxx . the problem of decide whether s lp for an arbitrary string s and pattern p be npcomplete see pictureand so be hence the problem of decide p q for arbitrary pattern p q . the class of pattern language is not close under . the class of pattern language is close under . if p q p are pattern contain exactly one variable then p q if and only if lp lqthe same equivalence hold for pattern of equal length . for pattern of different length the above example p xxx and q xxy show that lp lq may hold without imply p q . however any two pattern p and q of arbitrary length generate the same language if and only if they be equal up to consistent variable renaming . each pattern p be a common generalization of all string in it generate language lp modulo associativity of . in a refine chomsky hierarchy the class of pattern language be a proper superclass and subclass of the singleton and the indexed language respectively but incomparable to the language class in between due to the latter the pattern language class be not explicitly shown in the table below . the class of pattern language be incomparable with the class of finite language with the class of regular language and with the class of contextfree languageseach singleton language be trivially a pattern language generate by a pattern without variable . each pattern language can be produce by an indexed grammarfor example use a b c and x x y the pattern a x b y c x a y b is generate by a grammar with nonterminal symbol n s s s x terminal symbol t index symbol f a b c a b c start symbol s and the follow production rulesan example derivation be . in a similar way an index grammar can be construct from any pattern . give a sample set s of string a pattern p is call descriptive of s if s lp but not s lq lp for any other pattern q . give any sample set s a descriptive pattern for s can be compute by base on this algorithm the class of pattern language can be identify in the limit from positive example .