a time series be a series of data point index or list or graph in time order . most commonly a time series be a sequence take at successive equally spaced point in time . thus it be a sequence of discretetime data . example of time series be height of ocean tide count of sunspot and the daily close value of the dow jones industrial average . time series are very frequently plot via line chart . time series are use in statistic signal process pattern recognition econometrics mathematical finance weather forecasting earthquake prediction electroencephalography control engineering astronomy communication engineer and largely in any domain of applied science and engineer which involves temporal measurement . time series analysis comprise method for analyze time series data in order to extract meaningful statistic and other characteristic of the data . time series forecasting be the use of a model to predict future value base on previously observed value . while regression analysis is often employ in such a way a to test theory that the current value of one or more independent time series affect the current value of another time series this type of analysis of time series is not call time series analysis which focus on comparing value of a single time series or multiple dependent time series at different point in time . interrupted time series analysis be the analysis of intervention on a single time series . time series data have a natural temporal order . this make time series analysis distinct from crosssectional study in which there be no natural ordering of the observation e . explaining people wag by reference to their respective education level where the individual data could be enter in any order . time series analysis be also distinct from spatial data analysis where the observation typically relate to geographical location e . account for house price by the location as well a the intrinsic characteristic of the house . a stochastic model for a time series will generally reflect the fact that observation close together in time will be more closely relate than observation further apart . in addition time series model will often make use of the natural oneway ordering of time so that value for a give period will be express a derive in some way from past value rather than from future value see time reversibility . time series analysis can be apply to realvalued continuous data discrete numeric data or discrete symbolic data i . sequence of character such a letter and word in the english language . method for time series analysis may be divide into two class frequencydomain method and timedomain method . the former include spectral analysis and wavelet analysis the latter include autocorrelation and crosscorrelation analysis . in the time domain correlation and analysis can be make in a filterlike manner using scale correlation thereby mitigate the need to operate in the frequency domain . additionally time series analysis technique may be divide into parametric and nonparametric method . the parametric approach assume that the underlying stationary stochastic process have a certain structure which can be describe use a small number of parameter for example use an autoregressive or move average model . in these approach the task be to estimate the parameter of the model that describe the stochastic process . by contrast nonparametric approach explicitly estimate the covariance or the spectrum of the process without assume that the process have any particular structure . method of time series analysis may also be divide into linear and nonlinear and univariate and multivariate . a time series be one type of panel data . panel data be the general class a multidimensional data set whereas a time series data set be a onedimensional panel a be a crosssectional dataset . a data set may exhibit characteristic of both panel data and time series data . one way to tell be to ask what make one data record unique from the other record . if the answer be the time data field then this be a time series data set candidate . if determine a unique record require a time data field and an additional identifier which is unrelated to time student id stock symbol country code then it be panel data candidate . if the differentiation lie on the nontime identifier then the data set be a crosssectional data set candidate . there be several type of motivation and data analysis available for time series which be appropriate for different purpose and etc . in the context of statistic econometrics quantitative finance seismology meteorology and geophysics the primary goal of time series analysis be forecasting . in the context of signal processing control engineering and communication engineering it is use for signal detection and estimation while in the context of data mining pattern recognition and machine learn time series analysis can be use for cluster classification query by content anomaly detection as well a forecast . the clear way to examine a regular time series manually be with a line chart such a the one shown for tuberculosis in the united state make with a spreadsheet program . the number of case wa standardize to a rate per and the percent change per year in this rate be calculated . the nearly steadily drop line show that the tb incidence wa decrease in most year but the percent change in this rate vary by as much a with surge in and around the early s . the use of both vertical ax allow the comparison of two time series in one graphic . other technique include . curve fitting be the process of construct a curve or mathematical function that have the best fit to a series of data point possibly subject to constraint . curve fitting can involve either interpolation where an exact fit to the data is require or smooth in which a smooth function is construct that approximately fit the data . a related topic be regression analysis which focus more on question of statistical inference such a how much uncertainty be present in a curve that be fit to data observe with random error . fit curve can be use a an aid for data visualization to infer value of a function where no data be available and to summarize the relationship among two or more variable . extrapolation refer to the use of a fit curve beyond the range of the observe data and be subject to a degree of uncertainty since it may reflect the method use to construct the curve as much a it reflect the observed data . the construction of economic time series involve the estimation of some component for some date by interpolation between value benchmark for early and late date . interpolation be estimation of an unknown quantity between two known quantity historical data or draw conclusion about miss information from the available information reading between the line . interpolation be useful where the data surround the missing data be available and it trend seasonality and longerterm cycle are know . this is often do by use a relate series know for all relevant date . alternatively polynomial interpolation or spline interpolation is use where piecewise polynomial function are fit into time interval such that they fit smoothly together . a different problem which be closely related to interpolation be the approximation of a complicate function by a simple function also call regression . the main difference between regression and interpolation be that polynomial regression give a single polynomial that model the entire data set . spline interpolation however yield a piecewise continuous function compose of many polynomial to model the data set . extrapolation be the process of estimate beyond the original observation range the value of a variable on the basis of it relationship with another variable . it be similar to interpolation which produce estimate between known observation but extrapolation be subject to greater uncertainty and a high risk of produce meaningless result . in general a function approximation problem ask u to select a function among a welldefined class that closely match approximates a target function in a taskspecific way . one can distinguish two major class of function approximation problem first for known target function approximation theory be the branch of numerical analysis that investigates how certain known function for example special function can be approximate by a specific class of function for example polynomial or rational function that often have desirable property inexpensive computation continuity integral and limit value etc . second the target function call it g may be unknown instead of an explicit formula only a set of point a time series of the form x gx be provided . depend on the structure of the domain and codomain of g several technique for approximate g may be applicable . for example if g be an operation on the real number technique of interpolation extrapolation regression analysis and curve fitting can be use . if the codomain range or target set of g be a finite set one is deal with a classification problem instead . a related problem of online time series approximation be to summarize the data in onepass and construct an approximate representation that can support a variety of time series query with bound on worstcase error . to some extent the different problem regression classification fitness approximation have receive a unified treatment in statistical learning theory where they are view a supervise learn problem . in statistic prediction be a part of statistical inference . one particular approach to such inference is know a predictive inference but the prediction can be undertake within any of the several approach to statistical inference . indeed one description of statistic be that it provide a mean of transfer knowledge about a sample of a population to the whole population and to other related population which be not necessarily the same a prediction over time . when information is transfer across time often to specific point in time the process is know a forecast . assign time series pattern to a specific category for example identify a word base on series of hand movement in sign language . this approach is base on harmonic analysis and filter of signal in the frequency domain use the fourier transform and spectral density estimation the development of which wa significantly accelerate during world war ii by mathematician norbert wiener electrical engineer rudolf e . klmn dennis gabor and others for filter signal from noise and predict signal value at a certain point in time . see kalman filter estimation theory and digital signal processing . split a timeseries into a sequence of segment . it be often the case that a timeseries can be represent a a sequence of individual segment each with it own characteristic property . for example the audio signal from a conference call can be partition into piece correspond to the time during which each person wa speak . in timeseries segmentation the goal be to identify the segment boundary point in the timeseries and to characterize the dynamical property associate with each segment . one can approach this problem using changepoint detection or by model the timeseries a a more sophisticated system such a a markov jump linear system . model for time series data can have many form and represent different stochastic process . when model variation in the level of a process three broad class of practical importance be the autoregressive ar model the integrate i model and the move average ma model . these three class depend linearly on previous data point . combination of these ideas produce autoregressive move average arma and autoregressive integrate move average arima model . the autoregressive fractionally integrate moving average arfima model generalize the former three . extension of these class to deal with vectorvalued data be available under the heading of multivariate timeseries model and sometimes the preceding acronym are extend by include an initial v for vector a in var for vector autoregression . an additional set of extension of these model be available for use where the observed timeseries is drive by some force timeseries which may not have a causal effect on the observe series the distinction from the multivariate case be that the force series may be deterministic or under the experimenter control . for these model the acronym are extend with a final x for exogenous . nonlinear dependence of the level of a series on previous data point be of interest partly because of the possibility of produce a chaotic time series . however more importantly empirical investigation can indicate the advantage of use prediction derive from nonlinear model over those from linear model a for example in nonlinear autoregressive exogenous model . further reference on nonlinear time series analysis kantz and schreiber and abarbanel . among other type of nonlinear time series model there be model to represent the change of variance over time heteroskedasticity . these model represent autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity arch and the collection comprise a wide variety of representation garch tarch egarch figarch cgarch etc . here change in variability are relate to or predict by recent past value of the observed series . this be in contrast to other possible representation of locally vary variability where the variability might be model a being drive by a separate timevarying process a in a doubly stochastic model . in recent work on modelfree analysis wavelet transform base method for example locally stationary wavelet and wavelet decompose neural network have gain favor . multiscale often refer to a multiresolution technique decompose a given time series attempting to illustrate time dependence at multiple scale . see also markov switch multifractal msmf technique for modeling volatility evolution . a hidden markov model hmm be a statistical markov model in which the system being model is assume to be a markov process with unobserved hidden state . an hmm can be consider a the simple dynamic bayesian network . hmm model are widely use in speech recognition for translate a time series of spoken word into text . a number of different notation be in use for timeseries analysis . a common notation specify a time series x that is index by the natural number be written . another common notation be . where t be the index set . there be two set of condition under which much of the theory be built . however ideas of stationarity must be expanded to consider two important idea strict stationarity and secondorder stationarity . both model and application can be develop under each of these condition although the model in the latter case might be consider a only partly specified . in addition timeseries analysis can be apply where the series be seasonally stationary or nonstationary . situation where the amplitude of frequency component change with time can be deal with in timefrequency analysis which make use of a timefrequency representation of a timeseries or signal . tool for investigating timeseries data include . time series metric or feature that can be use for time series classification or regression analysis . time series can be visualize with two category of chart overlap chart and separate chart . overlap chart display alltime series on the same layout while separate chart present them on different layout but align for comparison purpose . work with time series data be a relatively common use for statistical analysis software . a a result of this there be many offering both commercial and open source . some example include .