trax be a technology company headquarter in singapore with office throughout apac europe middle east north america and south america . it computer vision technology is use by fmcg company such a cocacola and retailer to collect measure and analyse what is happen on physical shelf . found in trax have over customer in the retail and fmcg industry include beverage giant cocacola and brewer anheuserbusch inbev . it service be available in market and the company development centre is locate in tel aviv . trax close it first round of fund for u . million in june . they open their telaviv office in july and close their second round of fund for u . million in december . their third round of funding for u . million close in february . in december trax announce it fourth round of investment of u million . in trax open their first two regional office london in january and brazil in april . in march trax establish their latam headquarters in atlanta georgia . trax announce a th round of funding for u million on june . two new regional office be open in shanghai and mexico city in june and september respectively . on february trax close their sixth round of fund for u . million . on june trax announce it most recent funding round of u million lead by global private equity giant warburg pincus . on july trax announce that they had acquire nielsen store observation nso asset in the usa from nielsen corporation . on january trax announce that they had acquire usbased quri the leader in crowdsourced instore condition data for the consumer package good cpg industry . trax reduce the time an employee need to spend on audit to check inventory shelf display and product promotion . it be also gather more extensive data such a product assortment shelf space price promotion shelf location and arrangement of product on display . this market intelligence be valuable to retail and fmcg manufacturer because they pay large sum for space in supermarket and store . for example in the u company pay approximately billion for shelf space . the computer vision technology use artificial intelligence finegrained image recognition and machine learn engine to convert store image into shelf insight . trax be able to recognise product that be similar or identical such a brand drink or shampoo bottle whilst also be able to differentiate between them base on variety and size . it pilot it machine learn algorithm with initial customer allow it algorithm to learn about different product . a the company process more image the good it get at recognise the same product in different shape and size . to date trax ha recognize more than billion image and recognize approximately million new product per month .