the ugly duckling theorem be an argument assert that classification be impossible without some sort of bias . more particularly it assume finitely many property combinable by logical connective and finitely many object it assert that any two different object share the same number of extensional property . the theorem is name after han christian andersen story the ugly duckling because it show that a duckling be just as similar to a swan a two duckling be to each other . it wa propose by satosi watanabe in . suppose there be n thing in the universe and one want to put them into class or category . one have no preconceive idea or bias about what sort of category be natural or normal and what be not . so one have to consider all the possible class that could be all the possible way of make set out of the n object . there be formula such way the size of the power set of n object . one can use that to measure the similarity between two object and one would see how many set they have in common . however one can not . any two object have exactly the same number of class in common if we can form any possible class namely formula half the total number of class there be . to see this be so one may imagine each class be a represent by an nbit string or binary encode integer with a zero for each element not in the class and a one for each element in the class . a one find there be formula such string . a all possible choice of zero and one be there any two bitpositions will agree exactly half the time . one may pick two element and reorder the bit so they be the first two and imagine the number sort lexicographically . the first formula number will have bit set to zero and the second formula will have it set to one . within each of those block the top formula will have bit set to zero and the other formula will have it as one so they agree on two block of formula or on half of all the case . no matter which two element one pick . so if we have no preconceive bias about which category be good everything be then equally similar or equally dissimilar . the number of predicate simultaneously satisfy by two nonidentical element be constant over all such pair and be the same a the number of those satisfy by one . thus some kind of inductive bias is need to make judgement i . to prefer certain category over others . let formula be a set of vector of formula booleans each . the ugly duckling be the vector which be least like the others . give the booleans this can be compute use hamming distance . however the choice of boolean feature to consider could have be somewhat arbitrary . perhaps there be feature derivable from the original feature that be important for identify the ugly duckling . the set of booleans in the vector can be extend with new feature compute a boolean function of the formula original feature . the only canonical way to do this be to extend it with all possible boolean function . the resulting completed vector have formula feature . the ugly duckling theorem state that there be no ugly duckling because any two complete vector will either be equal or differ in exactly half of the feature . proof . let x and y be two vector . if they be the same then their complete vector must also be the same because any boolean function of x will agree with the same boolean function of y . if x and y be different then there exist a coordinate formula where the formulath coordinate of formula differs from the formulath coordinate of formula . now the completed feature contain every boolean function on formula boolean variable with each one exactly once . view these boolean function a polynomial in formula variable over gf segregate the function into pair formula where formula contain the formulath coordinate a a linear term and formula be formula without that linear term . now for every such pair formula formula and formula will agree on exactly one of the two function . if they agree on one they must disagree on the other and vice versa . this proof is believe to be due to watanabe . would be to introduce a constraint on how similarity is measure by limit the property involve in classification say between a and b . however medin et al . point out that this doe not actually resolve the arbitrariness or bias problem since in what respect a be similar to b varies with the stimulus context and task so that there be no unique answer to the question of how similar be one object to another . for example a barberpole and a zebra would be more similar than a horse and a zebra if the feature strip have sufficient weight . of course if these feature weight were fix then these similarity relation would be constrain . yet the property strip a a weight fix or constraint be arbitrary itself mean unless one can specify such criterion then the claim that categorization is base on attribute matching be almost entirely vacuous . stamos ha attempt to solve the ugly ducking theorem by show some judgment of overall similarity be nonarbitrary in the sense they be useful . unless some property are consider more salient or weight more important than others everything will appear equally similar hence watanabe write any object in so far a they be distinguishable be equally similar . in a weaker setting that assume infinitely many property murphy and medin give an example of two putative classify thing plum and lawnmowers .