in computer science uncertain data be data that contain noise that make it deviate from the correct intend or original value . in the age of big data uncertainty or data veracity be one of the defining characteristic of data . data be constantly grow in volume variety velocity and uncertainty veracity . uncertain data is find in abundance today on the web in sensor network within enterprise both in their structured and unstructured source . for example there may be uncertainty regard the address of a customer in an enterprise dataset or the temperature reading capture by a sensor due to age of the sensor . in ibm call out manage uncertain data at scale in it global technology outlook report that present a comprehensive analysis look three to ten year into the future seek to identify significant disruptive technology that will change the world . in order to make confident business decision base on realworld data analysis must necessarily account for many different kind of uncertainty present in very large amount of data . analyses base on uncertain data will have an effect on the quality of subsequent decision so the degree and type of inaccuracy in this uncertain data cannot be ignore . uncertain data be find in the area of sensor network text where noisy text is find in abundance on social medium web and within enterprise where the structured and unstructured data may be old outdated or plain incorrect in model where the mathematical model may only be an approximation of the actual process . when represent such data in a database some indication of the probability of the correctness of the various value also need to be estimate . there be three main model of uncertain data in database . in attribute uncertainty each uncertain attribute in a tuple be subject to it own independent probability distribution . for example if reading are take of temperature and wind speed each would be describe by it own probability distribution a know the reading for one measurement would not provide any information about the other . in correlated uncertainty multiple attribute may be describe by a joint probability distribution . for example if reading are take of the position of an object and the x and ycoordinates store the probability of different value may depend on the distance from the recorded coordinate . a distance depend on both coordinate it may be appropriate to use a joint distribution for these coordinate a they be not independent . in tuple uncertainty all the attribute of a tuple be subject to a joint probability distribution . this cover the case of correlated uncertainty but also include the case where there be a probability of a tuple not belong in the relevant relation which is indicate by all the probability not sum to one . for example assume we have the follow tuple from a probabilistic database . then the tuple have chance of not exist in the database .