uniform convergence in probability be a form of convergence in probability in statistical asymptotic theory and probability theory . it mean that under certain condition the empirical frequency of all event in a certain eventfamily converge to their theoretical probability . uniform convergence in probability have application to statistic as well a machine learn a part of statistical learn theory . the law of large number say that for each single event it empirical frequency in a sequence of independent trial converge with high probability to it theoretical probability . but in some application we are interest not in a single event but in a whole family of event . we would like to know whether the empirical frequency of every event in the family converge to it theoretical probability simultaneously . the uniform convergence theorem give a sufficient condition for this convergence to hold . roughly if the eventfamily be sufficiently simple it vc dimension be sufficiently small then uniform convergence hold . for a class of predicate formula define on a set formula and a set of sample formula where formula the empirical frequency of formula on formula be . the theoretical probability of formula is define a formula . the uniform convergence theorem state roughly that if formula be simple and we draw sample independently with replacement from formula accord to any distribution formula then with high probability the empirical frequency will be close to it expect value which be the theoretical probability . here simple mean that the vapnikchervonenkis dimension of the class formula be small relative to the size of the sample . in other word a sufficiently simple collection of function behaves roughly the same on a small random sample a it do on the distribution a a whole . the uniform convergence theorem wa first prove by vapnik and chervonenkis use the concept of growth function . the statement of the uniform convergence theorem be a follows . if formula be a set of formulavalued function define on a set formula and formula be a probability distribution on formula then for formula and formula a positive integer we have . the maximum is guarantee to exist since there be only a finite set of value that probability under a random permutation can take . lemma base on the previous lemma . proof . let u define formula and formula which be at most formula . this mean there be function formula such that for any formula between formula and formula with formula for formula . we see that formula iff for some formula in formula satisfies . formula . hence if we define formula if formula and formula otherwise . for formula and formula we have that formula iff for some formula in formula satisfies formula . by union bound we get . since the distribution over the permutation formula be uniform for each formula so formula equal formula with equal probability . thus . where the probability on the right be over formula and both the possibility be equally likely . by hoeffdings inequality this be at most formula . finally combine all the three part of the proof we get the uniform convergence theorem .