version space learn be a logical approach to machine learning specifically binary classification . version space learn algorithm search a predefined space of hypothesis view a a set of logical sentence . formally the hypothesis space be a disjunction . either hypothesis be true or hypothesis or any subset of the hypothesis through . a version space learn algorithm is present with example which it will use to restrict it hypothesis space for each example the hypothesis that be inconsistent with are remove from the space . this iterative refining of the hypothesis space is call the candidate elimination algorithm the hypothesis space maintain inside the algorithm it version space . in setting where there be a generalityordering on hypothesis it be possible to represent the version space by two set of hypothesis the most specific consistent hypothesis and the most general consistent hypothesis where consistent indicates agreement with observed data . the most specific hypothesis i . the specific boundary sb cover the observe positive training example and a little of the remain feature space a possible . these hypothesis if reduce any further exclude a positive training example and hence become inconsistent . these minimal hypothesis essentially constitute a pessimistic claim that the true concept is define just by the positive data already observe thus if a novel neverbeforeseen data point is observe it should be assume to be negative . if data ha not previously been rule in then it rule out . the most general hypothesis i . the general boundary gb cover the observed positive training example but also cover as much of the remain feature space without include any negative training example . these if enlarge any further include a negative training example and hence become inconsistent . these maximal hypothesis essentially constitute a optimistic claim that the true concept is define just by the negative data already observe thus if a novel neverbeforeseen data point is observe it should be assume to be positive . if data ha not previously been rule out then it rule in . thus during learn the version space which itself be a set possibly infinite contain all consistent hypothesis can be represent by just it lower and upper bound maximally general and maximally specific hypothesis set and learn operation can be perform just on these representative set . after learn classification can be perform on unseen example by test the hypothesis learn by the algorithm . if the example be consistent with multiple hypothesis a majority vote rule can be apply . the notion of version space wa introduce by mitchell in the early s a a framework for understand the basic problem of supervise learn within the context of solution search . although the basic candidate elimination search method that accompany the version space framework be not a popular learn algorithm there be some practical implementation that have been develop e . sverdlik reynolds hong tsang dubois quafafou . a major drawback of version space learn be it inability to deal with noise any pair of inconsistent example can cause the version space to collapse i . become empty so that classification become impossible .